Together
we ’re on
a journey. . .
Environmental, Social, and
Governance (ESG) Supplement 2024
Santander UK Group Holdings plc
2
Contents
Have a look at
what ’s inside
It starts
here!
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
3
Executive summary
A word from
our CEO
The scale of the challenge the UK As the global debate on securing a just transition I am excited at the potential for new thinking Our Sustainability strategy goes beyond issues
has become more polarised, it’s easy to dismiss the thanks to the partnerships we started in 2024 relating to the low‑carbon economy. For Santander
faces if it’s to transition successfully
potential impact of decisions taken at personal or with organisations like the Aldersgate Group and UK, building up financial literacy and strengthening
to a low‑carbon economy is local level and the difference these can make to our Foundation of Education Development. They’ll financial resilience have been long‑term priorities.
considerable, but it isn’t impossible. journey to a more sustainable economy. But I firmly challenge us to go further in terms of what we
believe that facilitating those decisions should be at can offer our customers and support with industry The Numbers Game, our flagship financial education
Whilst the consensus around the the core of what we do. alignment on the policy asks of the UK Government. initiative delivered in partnership with Twinkl,
has given access to resources on average per year,
steps we need to take may have
Research we conducted throughout 2024 confirmed The UK is home to world‑leading expertise that to an estimated one million 5‑to‑16‑year‑olds in
frayed recently, it’s still the case that that homeowners, renters and businesses are is helping to develop the innovative products the UK since launching in 2022. However, we need
many households and businesses aware of the benefits of taking steps like improving and solutions our customers will need. If we to go further.
the energy efficiency of their buildings or becoming can complement this with the right information
across the UK are aware of the need
a more responsible business in their day‑to‑day to make informed decisions and a clear policy Speaking at our Annual Reception in November, our
to take action, but they need help. operations. Our research also highlighted the environment that will provide the confidence to Chair, William Vereker, called for financial education
role we can play by supporting consumers and invest. Those commitments will make a significant to be compulsory for primary schools in England as
businesses on this journey, alongside government contribution to the UK’s progress on both net zero part of the curriculum.
policy interventions. and its growth ambitions.
We have seen through the cost‑of‑living crisis the
In a time of ongoing economic uncertainty, people I am proud of the fact sustainability sits at the heart value that being financially confident can make
are understandably reluctant to take on additional of Santander’s strategy, but only by working with when it comes to making decisions on household
financial commitments relating to sustainable others can we deliver the meaningful outcomes budgets. This is another example of how we can use
changes to their property when they are unsure our customers and the communities we serve our platform to drive interventions that have the
about the long‑term benefits that more efficient and want both here in the UK and across the wider potential for long‑term, national benefit.
warmer buildings will deliver. Small businesses, Santander markets.
under pressure from customers to show how they I would like to acknowledge the hard work and
are decarbonising, are looking for Government A key component of the UK’s approach is to support dedication of the people across Santander UK and
to provide long‑term financial support and our workforce with the skills the UK economy of our partners, who spend each day focused on how
policy certainty. the future will need. Giving people the opportunity we can support our customers to take those crucial
to improve their skill set has always been part of steps to a more sustainable economy.
This clearly shows that the solution lies in the our DNA.
financial services sector, industry and Government
coming together. So, through our Santander Open Academy platform,
we launched three new free programmes designed Mike Regnier,
specifically to give people the chance to access Chief Executive Officer UK
content focused on leadership, digital and net zero
Mike
Regnier
skills. Through initiatives like this, we are offering
people the opportunity to develop these vital, career
enhancing skills.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
4
Executive summary continued
How we
This ESG Supplement provides a summary of our sustainability performance for 2024 and accompanies
our Santander UK Group Holdings plc 2024 Annual Report and Accounts. Our full suite of Environmental,
report
Social and Governance (ESG) reporting and disclosures is shown in the table below.
Our reporting suite1
Information
Sustainability strategy
Double materiality
EU Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD)
Taskforce on Climate‑related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
ESG policies
Gender and Ethnicity Pay Gap
Stakeholder engagement
Human rights
Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting (SECR)
Companies Act Section 172 requirement
International Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB) (voluntary)
1 Our reporting criteria is driven by regulation and materials topics define in our Double Materiality Assessment.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
miA
Support productive inclusive growth across our key
stakeholder groups: our customers, our communities,
and our people.
srallip
cigetartS
1. Our Customers: Making their better happen
2. Our Communities: Better communities
3. Our People: Unleash our people’s potential
1scipot
lairetaM
Customers
– Information related impact for customers
– Social inclusion.
Affected communities
– Communities’ economic, social, and cultural rights.
Own workforce
– Working conditions
– Equal treatment and opportunities for all
– Other work‑related rights.
miA
Clear and robust governance with well‑defined
accountability which promotes the success of Santander
UK, its customers, and other stakeholders.
srallip
cigetartS
1. Stakeholder engagement
2. Effective Board of Directors
3. Responsible practices and stakeholder’s interests
1scipot
lairetaM
Business conduct
– Corporate culture
– Protection of whistleblowers
– Corruption and bribery
– Management of relationships with suppliers,
including payment practices.
miA
We’re aligned to Banco Santander’s ambition to work
towards achieving net zero by 2050. Our Climate
strategy aims to support our customers and address
key issues, risks and opportunities.
srallip
cigetartS
1. Supporting our customers in the green transition
2. Embedding climate in risk management
3. A iming to align our activity with the
UN Paris Agreement
1scipot
lairetaM
5
EExxeeccuuttiivvee ssuummmmaarryy ccoonnttiinnuueedd
Our Sustainability
Our Sustainability strategy sets out our ambition across the three pillars of Environment,
Social and Governance. It’s a priority of the business and supports our purpose of
strategy
helping people and businesses prosper. This also responds to the key sustainability
topics defined in our Double Materiality Assessment.
Environment Social Governance
Climate change
– Climate change mitigation
– Energy.
+
1 T he material topics are aligned to Banco Santander’s double materiality assessment which is in line with the EU Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD) and European Sustainability Reporting Standards (ESRS).
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
6
Executive summary continued
Tomorrow’s Tomorrow’s Tomorrow’s
Homes Skills Governance
We wanted to understand the challenges faced by our customers in We aspire to help people gain the skills they need to thrive. To better Our Governance Strategy sets out our ambition for clear and robust
making their homes more energy efficient. Through our Tomorrow’s understand this opportunity, we surveyed 3,000 adults in the UK. governance with well‑defined accountability which promotes the
Homes Report we listened to the concerns of over 4,000 homeowners We found out that 86% of people think it is important for adults to have success of Santander UK, its customers, and other stakeholders’.
and renters. access to professional skills training throughout their lives.
The strategy is aligned with the three strategic pillars of
With these insights, we created test and learn initiatives to help The desire for lifelong learning is sometimes pushed back due to time, Banco Santander’s global governance model – shareholder
our customers improve the energy efficiency of their homes. cost, and flexibility with their jobs and family. engagement, effective Board of Directors, and responsible practice
This includes launching incentives to reward customers and improving and stakeholders’ interests along with Santander UK specific priorities
Our new free education content provided by Santander Open Academy
the customer end to end journey. and actions.
helps people to develop green, digital, and professional leadership skills
Many people want to improve their home’s energy efficiency but are – the skills needed to power the economy of the future. The courses For example, a key activity started in 2024 was to simplify our
held back by gaps in knowledge. We have partnered with trusted experts focus on the following competences: communication, resilience, time governance processes, which allows us to make decisions in an efficient
to offer clear, practical solutions to address this challenge and connect management, teamwork, problem‑solving, the power of no‑code yet effective way. This is vital to the success of our business and we’ll
customers with the resources that they need to take action. automation tools for content creation, how to lead sustainable initiatives, continue to focus on simplicity in decision making.
engaging key stakeholders, and making change in the pursuit of net zero.
The Board Responsible Banking Committee oversees progress against
Since October 2024, more than 8,000 people have signed up for our our Governance strategy, and we expect to refresh the actions in the
new content. second half of 2025.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
7
Executive summary continued
Our approach
to materiality
Identifying our priority Each sustainability topic was assessed and assigned
a score out of five. The threshold for a topic to be Impact Financial
sustainability topics
considered material was 3.5. Impact materiality and
financial materiality were given different weightings Positive Negative
Banco Santander have been conducting materiality Risk Opp.
toward the overall materiality calculation. Sustainability topics + –
assessments since 2021. These assessments
underpin our Sustainability strategy.
This assessment was conducted across the entire Climate change
Banco Santander Group, including our UK own
In 2024, we introduced a new approach for assessing
operations and our UK value chain, using the
the materiality of Santander’s sustainability topics.
available information and tools; and by engaging Own workforce
This is to meet the EU CSRD requirements.
our UK key stakeholders. The results reflect a short
to medium‑term time horizon (~1‑5 years) for which
Santander UK is not in scope of EU CSRD, Affected communities
most of the information is available. However, a
however we actively contribute to Banco
qualitative analysis suggests that if we used a long‑
Santander’s disclosures and therefore much of our
term horizon, there would be no changes to the
reporting methodologies are aligned, including Consumers and end‑users
results and IROs that are material.
materiality assessments.
Banco Santander led the new double materiality Five topics were identified as material and have Business conduct
been mapped against our UK Sustainability strategy.
assessment (DMA) process across all Santander
These are climate change, own workforce, affected
entities. As part of this approach, Santander UK
communities, consumers and end‑users, and
identified impacts, risks, and opportunities linked to Critical Significant Informative Minimal
business conduct. Thresholds:
the sustainability topics identified as most material >4.5 4.5 – 3.5 3.5 – 2.5 <2.5
to our business. Currently, Santander UK is fully
Throughout 2024, we have looked to align as
aligned with Banco Santander on material topics.
much as possible with Banco Santander’s ESG
data points. As such, many of our methodologies
Our methodology
have been updated and are treated as new data
The impacts, risks, and opportunities relate to the
points. For this reason, some of these are not
ten European Sustainability Reporting Standards
equally comparable to previous years. Therefore,
(ESRS) topics using two lenses:
comparatives have not been provided in our metric
tables. This approach has been taken to enable
1. I mpact materiality: The impact Santander UK has
our stakeholders to understand the UK contribution
on each sustainability topic e.g. environment,
to the wider Banco Santander Group. In addition
people; and on sustainability in relation to
to this, we continue to disclose some UK only ESG
each topic
data points that support our local requirements
and commitments. For these, comparatives
2. F inancial materiality: The financial risks and
are recorded.
opportunities for Santander UK, linked to the
sustainability topics.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
8
Executive summary continued
Our impacts, risks,
Key
and opportunities + Positive – Negative R Risk O Opportunity
impact impact
Below are the details of the impacts, risks and opportunities under each material sustainability topic identified in the double materiality assessment.
Impact, risk,
Material topic or opportunity Description Read more
Climate change + Contribution to protecting the environment by driving an increase in the use of renewable energy and other low‑carbon
technologies.
+ Santander UK contribution to reducing the Banco Santander’s Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions.
– Adverse impact on climate and the environment due to the bank’s financing of, or investment in, certain non‑sustainable
assets and activities.
Growth in the financing of renewable energy and other energy transition solutions.
O
Revenue growth from providing our customers with sustainable solutions in sectors such as construction, mobility,
O
agriculture, and water and waste management.
Reputational risk from the perception of the bank’s progress with climate‑related policies and objectives.
R
Own workforce + Promote the health, wellbeing, and security of our employees in a safe and inclusive workplace. Facilitate a positive
work‑life balance through flexible working.
+ Promote a workforce that reflects the society we live in and encourages collaboration and the same opportunities for all
our employees, irrespective of gender, disability, or other characteristics.
+ Promote continuous career development and personal growth through learning and development programmes.
+ Promote the general wellbeing of employees and provide appropriate remuneration under equal conditions based on
merit and market rates.
– Harm employees through discriminatory conduct, inadequate working conditions, harassment or corruption.
Potential risk of conflict with employees due to excessive working hours, corruption, or infringement of their rights.
R
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
9
Executive summary continued
Key
+ Positive – Negative R Risk O Opportunity
impact impact
Impact, risk,
Material topic or opportunity Description Read more
Consumers and end‑users + Positive impact on customers due to the bank’s offer of products and services that adapt to their needs and expectations
and promote financial inclusion and health
+ Education on, and awareness of, cyber security to understand potential threats and ways to repel them.
– Negative impact on the customer if they do not have access to complaints channels or if, after making a complaint, the
bank fails to take the necessary action.
– Negative impact on the customer if the bank fails to provide sufficient information on the product or service they are
signing up for.
– Potential infringement of customers’, employees’, or shareholders’ rights due to a lack of appropriate technical or
organisational measures to protect their personal data according to law and the practices set by Banco Santander.
– Negative impact on the customer by failing to guarantee access to, or the use of, products and services that may present
certain obstacles or weak spots.
Potential losses due to fines or a reduction in the number of customers because of a failure to detect or respond
R
effectively to breaches of privacy.
Potential losses due to claims or a reduction in customer numbers because of substandard customer practices
R
throughout their life cycle.
Affected communities + Drive economic growth and job creation in the regions where we operate and provide credit to people and businesses.
+ Contribution to sustainable development through financing and investment that promotes sustainable performance in
companies, addresses societal challenges, mitigates a specific issue, or pursues positive societal outcomes.
+ Contribute to education, employability and entrepreneurship, as well as to community development through support
programmes.
– Finance activities (in any customer segment) that breach the bank’s policies and jeopardise the wellbeing of present or
future generations.
– Potentially negative impact on the environment or society by failling to sufficiently involve stakeholders or use suitable
customer identification and management mechanisms when providing finance to a customer or project.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
10
Executive summary continued
Key
+ Positive – Negative R Risk O Opportunity
impact impact
Impact, risk,
Material topic or opportunity Description Read more
Business conduct + Act responsibly and consider investors’ interests and the impact on employees, broader society, and the environment.
Pay taxes to support the distribution of wealth.
+ Protect the confidentiality of users of the bank’s ethical channel and have an effective reporting system in place that
follows robust principles and procedures.
+ Promote responsible practices among suppliers. Engage with them, assess their ESG performance, and give them
recommendations and tools to improve.
– Negative impact on the environment or broader society by failing to implement measures to resolve incidents through
complaints or reporting channels, or due to a lack of continuous improvement actions.
– Harm broader society through bribery or corruption.
Potential risk from failing to ensure the operational resilience of the supply chain, by assessing suppliers’ solvency,
R
reputation, and compliance with the law.
Risk stemming from improper conduct that makes illicit funds or assets appear legitimate and, therefore, facilitates
R
illegal activity or to benefit from it.
Five sustainability topics were identified as less material for Santander UK. None of the impacts, risks, and opportunities associated with them reached the materiality threshold. The topics that are less material are: pollution, water
and marine resources, biodiversity and ecosystems, resource and circular economy, and workers in the value chain.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
11
Executive summary continued
Our contribution to the
UN Sustainable development goals (SDGs)
The UN SDGs on which our operations have the greatest impact
No poverty SDGs 1.2, 1.4, 1.5 Affordable SDGs 7.1, 7.b Sustainable SDGs 11.1, 11.4, 11.6 Peace, justice SDGs 16.5, 16.6, 16.7
We want to help reduce poverty, and clean We’re a global leader in cities and We finance sustainable and strong We promote transparency, fight
boost wellbeing, and power energy renewable energy financing and communities infrastructure, real estate, and institutions against corruption, and ensure
economic growth wherever we a European leader in electric mobility solutions. We run robust governance across our
operate. Our Financial Inclusion vehicle financing. We also finance community support initiatives organisation. Our policies and
strategy and community initiatives on energy efficiency, to meet the basic needs of the Codes of Conduct regulate our
investment programmes empower sustainable mobility, and cleaner communities we serve. business and behaviour. They steer
millions of people every year. transport solutions. our objectives towards a more
responsible banking system.
Quality SDGs 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6 Decent work SDGs 8.3, 8.4, 8.5, 8.6, 8.8, 8.10 Responsible SDGs 12.2, 12.5, 12.6 Partnerships SDG 17
education We want to help people and and economic As an employer and financier, we consumption We are working towards reducing for the goals We take part in prominent local
businesses prosper through our growth aim to help people and businesses. and our environmental footprint. and international initiatives and
education, entrepreneurship, We contribute to economic growth production We are implementing energy working groups.
and employability programmes. and job creation in the markets efficiency plans and cutting
Santander Open Academy is where we operate. consumption of paper, single‑use
a training platform that offers plastics, and other resources.
scholarships and free courses to
boost career opportunities.
Gender SDGs 5.1, 5.5 Reduced SDG 10.2 Climate SDG 13.1
equality We aim to promote an inclusive inequalities We help people access basic action We aim to tackle climate change by
workplace to ensure equal banking services. We also aim to helping our customers transition
opportunity and inclusive culture. promote financial education to to a sustainable economy and
teach them the skills they need to reducing our own carbon footprint.
manage their finances effectively.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
ent
n m In this section
Enviro
Find out how we are
aligning to the UN SDG’s
13
Environment
Our approach to
environment
Our progress and targets Highlights Santander UK’s Climate strategy
£3.9bn Tomorrow’s Homes
Working towards our ambition of achieving net zero emissions by 2050
Green finance raised and facilitated in 2024 Report published highlighting the UK’s
energy efficient buildings challenge Supporting our customers Embedding climate in Aiming to align our activity
in the green transition risk management with the UN Paris Agreement
47,000
£382m
Customers supported with products and
services in their transition to net zero in 2024 Lending of green finance in 2024 to renewable
energy and infrastructure projects
£17.2bn
Six Integrate climate‑related Align key lending portfolios and
Help our customers transition
Green finance raised and facilitated since 2021 risks and adhere to regulatory reduce our own environmental
to a low‑carbon economy
with a target of £20bn by the end of 2025 Test and learn initiatives trialled to help and supervisory expectations footprint
customers improve the energy efficiency of
their homes or reward those living in the Green finance products and Embedding climate as a Interim goals and addressing
most energy efficient ones propositions transversal risk our dependencies
105,8841 Key Enablers
Stakeholder
Low‑carbon vehicles financed Strategic Data and
research and Policy advocacy Green skills
partnerships disclosures
engagement
Tackling climate change is a strategic priority for The plan is aligned with the three pillars of our
Banco Santander. Our Climate strategy defines Climate strategy. It aligns to the Transition Plan
our approach to working towards our global Taskforce guidelines.
ambition of achieving net zero emissions by 2050.
Supporting our customers is a key element of We’ve enhanced our Mortgage portfolio data
our Climate strategy aiming to help them in the and reported emissions from our Commercial
transition to a low‑carbon economy through the Real Estate (CRE) lending for the first time.
development of green finance propositions. These data modelling and data quality
improvements are an important step in further
This year, we continued to evolve our internal understanding and addressing the environmental
climate transition plan which was developed in impact of our activities.
2023. We enhanced the plan to reflect progress
made within Santander UK and the evolving 1 T hese are defined as vehicles that emit less than,
external environment. or equal to, 50g CO2/km travelled.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
14
Environment continued
Embedding into financial planning We also aligned assumptions on external policy
Embedding sustainability There are four key parts to embedding our Climate across our scenario analysis and our transition
strategy into our business. Our internal climate plan. This ensures that insights from this analysis
transition plan, our risk identification process are consistent and can be combined. We also
and scenario analysis to identify areas of higher updated our transition plan with insights from our
risk, and our Green Finance Programme across green finance test and learn initiatives. These have
IFRS9
Retail and Business Banking and Corporate and enhanced our understanding of the impact we
Commercial Banking. can have in supporting our customers in the
green transition.
Climate Internal Scenario The integration of our transition plan with risk
Credit
Analysis (CISA) management and green finance has been a Resilience of our Climate strategy
decisioning
priority. This approach supports our environmental In recent years, we carried out a series of scenario
ambitions while also addressing our climate‑related analysis exercises to assess the resilience of
Environment, Social, and financial risks. our strategy to the impacts of climate change.
Climate Change Risk owned In 2024, we built our own internal modelling
process to identify long‑term In 2024, we incorporated our three‑year financial capabilities. Our refined analysis shows that
risks and opportunities arising plan for our largest portfolio, Mortgages, into our while climate‑related risks could intensify other
under climate pathways. transition planning and scenario analysis. risk factors, we remain resilient within the
scenarios examined.
Climate Environmental Internal Climate
Risk and Opportunities Transition Plan National Parks
Model (CEROM) ‘Net Zero with Nature’ initiative
Sustainability team owned Since 2021, we’ve worked with National Parks to
ESCC Risk and CCB
programme setting out support the delivery of impactful projects that
owned process to
our UN Paris Agreement enhance climate and ecological resilience, protect
identify corporate client
aligned pathway to work biodiversity, and engage local communities.
specific risks and transition
towards meeting our 2050
finance opportunities.
net zero ambition. We are supporting peatland restoration in the
Cairngorms National Park. Peatlands act as
a natural carbon sink while also supporting
diverse ecosystems.
Green Finance In the Lake District National Park, we are
Programme supporting improvements to the water quality,
safeguarding natural habitats, and reducing risks
such as flooding and ecosystem degradation.
Identifying product
National parks
innovations, partnerships, and Our latest project is with the North York Moors
education communications to National Park. We are supporting the creation
help our customers transition. of pollination corridors to support biodiversity,
and sustain ecosystems that are essential to
agriculture and wildlife in this year.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
15
Environment continued
Mortgages 1. Home energy cashback
To ease the financial burden of upfront costs,
Supporting our customers in the green transition Santander UK introduced a cashback scheme of up
We want to be the easiest way to make our to £500 for customers taking out a loan for home
customers better happen. We aim to support our energy efficiency improvements.
customers transition to a low‑carbon economy and
drive inclusive and sustainable growth. 2. Octopus Energy
We partnered with Octopus Energy to provide
As one of the largest mortgage providers in the UK, existing Santander customers with a discount of
this means supporting customers to improve the £500 on solar panel installations to help reduce the
energy efficiency of their homes. upfront cost.
Tomorrow’s Homes report 3. Vibrant homes assessment
Significant change to the energy efficiency retrofit To bridge the energy efficiency knowledge gap,
market in the UK relies on long‑term policy we partnered with Vibrant Energy Matters.
certainty. To support this, we have taken an active Together, we offer our mortgage and current
role in policy advocacy in this area. account holders Energy Performance Certificate
(EPC) home assessments and bespoke energy
In 2024, we launched the Tomorrow’s Homes report efficiency reports. An optional energy efficiency
drawing on public opinion and customer research improvement coordination service is available for
to better understand the barriers to improve energy comprehensive retrofits.
efficiency in homes.
4. Scottish Power
Through our partnership with Scottish Power, we
provide financing for heat pumps and solar power.
Our products are part of both partners’ customer
The report explores UK homeowner renter and
journeys to streamline the process and reduce
business owner attitudes towards improving
barriers to finance.
building energy efficiency. It shows that there is wide
public understanding of the potential benefits of
5. Green mortgages
energy efficiency, but identified significant barriers
We have been trialling products that recognise
preventing action including:
– Knowledge gaps around energy efficiency and reward customers living in the most energy Greener homes
efficient homes.
improvements
– High upfront costs, furthered by limited authority We launched partnerships with EcoFurb, I was actually thinking of having
for renters to make changes 6. EcoFurb Octopus Energy, Vibrant Energy Matters, and
– Challenges with the energy efficiency We have supported a successful bid led by Parity ScottishPower in 2024. Offers include our Home solar panels fitted and was about
improvements in the supply chain Projects/Core Logic under the UK Government’s Energy Cashback to support customers. to start looking. Now I know
Green Homes Finance Accelerator programme
– Shortage of skilled tradespeople required for where to go.”
(GHFA). The project has launched EcoFurb, the first
energy efficiency improvements.
free advice national energy efficiency improvement
Feedback from Santander customer
coordination service. Parity Projects/CoreLogic
In response to these findings, we have trialled
have an established background in whole‑house
six new test and learn initiatives designed to gain
retrofits. They have successfully completed multiple
insight into how we can support our customers to
large‑scale energy efficiency improvements for
improve their homes or reward customers living in
local authority housing. Our customers can now
the most energy efficient homes:
access the EcoFurb digital home plan tool and an
optional paid for energy efficient improvement
coordination service.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
16
Environment continued
Mortgages continued Aiming to align our activity with the Data quality
UN Paris Agreement Our emissions data is derived from EPC data and the
Our ambition is to align our portfolio to the UN We have assessed our lending portfolio against PCAF database. Where the data does not exist, we
Paris Agreement by 2050. We recognise that with three climate pathways: have used modelling to create an EPC that results
evolving methodologies and data sources, external – Climate Change Committee – Balanced Net Zero in a PCAF score of 3.2, with one being the highest
factors may result in changes to our reported – Carbon Risk Real Estate Monitor – UK quality and five the lowest.
numbers. In 2024, we saw a material change in – International Energy Agency – Net Zero by 2050.
the emissions intensity of our Mortgage portfolio.
This was due to three factors: Our analysis currently suggests that this sector is not Transition Pathway Levers
currently aligned to net zero based on the current
1. An increase in emissions intensity due to changed policy environment and market demand. However, Control Influence Monitor
assumptions where no floor area is available. we are proactive in both of these areas and revise
Our current strategy, including We analysed the key government The governments Clean Power
our analysis annually to monitor developments
2. A methodology change to use Partnership for decisions over the type of policies needed to support our 2030 Action Plan for the energy
and ensure we are focusing efforts appropriately
Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF) emission properties we will lend to and customers to transition to net zero. grid is a material lever.
to support portfolio alignment with the UN
factors rather than emissions values derived the impact of our test and learn
Paris Agreement.
from properties EPCs. This is because the initiatives within retail banking These include implementation of We track progress and future
PCAF emissions factors better reflect current green finance. the Future Homes Standard, and trends through the National Grid’s
Our internal climate transition plan is built around
electricity grid intensity and are refreshed on incentives and requirements for Future Energy Scenarios.
three key levers that drive our transition: Levers
a more frequent basis. owner occupier and buy‑to‑let
under our direct control; Levers where we can
properties to reach minimum
3. Updated PCAF emissions factors in influence change; Levers beyond our control or
energy efficiency standards.
December 2023. influence that we monitor.
As part of our internal climate transition planning
process, we have developed an understanding of
the actions needed to work towards our net zero
ambition for this portfolio.
Santander UK Mortgage Book‑ FY22 to FY23 key changes Santander UK Mortgage Book‑ FY22 to FY23 key changes
in financed emissions intensity (kgCO e/m2) in absolute financed emissions (kgtCO e)
2 2
50 3,000
2,561 176
39.7 1.1 40.8 6.5 2,500 2,385 381
40
34.3 13.4 2,004 784
2,000
30
1,500
20.9 1,220
20
1,000
10
500
0 0
2022 Asset level 2023 portfolio Change 2023 portfolio Change due 2023 portfolio 2022 Asset level 2023 portfolio Change 2023 portfolio Change due 2023 portfolio
baseline calculations based on prior due to use of based on to method based on baseline calculations based on prior due to use of based on to method based on
and delivery of approach using PCAF Database PCAF Database updated by PCAF Database and delivery of approach using PCAF Database PCAF Database updated by PCAF Database
business strategy EPC emissions data 2022 2022 PCAF 2023 business strategy EPC emissions data 2022 2022 PCAF 2023
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
17
Environment continued
Corporate and Commercial Social housing remains a significant area of
focus. Our loans support investment in the
Banking
safety and efficiency of existing social homes and
the development of much needed new ones.
This year we have completed analysis for our largest
In 2024, Santander UK provided £760m of new
portfolios by exposure in Corporate and Commercial
lending taking total sector funding to c.£7.8bn.
Banking (CCB). These are: Commercial Real Estate,
Of this, £250m is Sustainability Linked to ESG
Care Homes, Hotels, and Social Housing portfolios.
performance targets.
The current financed emissions for these portfolios
can be found in the data tables later in this section.
CCB continues to provide funding to the expanding
UK renewables and battery energy storage sectors.
Our analysis includes an assessment of our current
We provided funding to borrowers including
emissions and an understanding of what progress
Octopus Energy, Zenobe, Gore Steet, Statera,
would look like under UK and global pathways.
Atlantic Green, and TagEnergy among others.
It also reviews the material levers to enable
This investment aligns with Banco Santander’s
alignment with the UN Paris Agreement against
efforts to fund renewable energy projects globally.
these pathways.
Aiming to align our activity with the UN Paris
Aligned to our analysis for Mortgages, we have
Agreement
categorised these levers in terms of those that we
As with our Mortgages portfolio, we have
can control, those that we can influence, and those
assessed our alignment pathway against three
that we can monitor.
climate scenarios:
– Climate Change Committee – Balanced Net Zero
Supporting our customers in the green transition
– Carbon Risk Real Estate Monitor – UK
We aim to support businesses of all sizes in
– International Energy Agency – Net Zero by 2050.
transitioning to a low‑carbon economy. In 2024, we
developed a green finance strategy which outlines
Our analysis currently suggests that this sector
the key activities needed to achieve our CCB green
is not currently aligned to net zero given the
finance goals.
current policy given current market demand
and policy environment and, as with Mortgages,
We offer two types of sustainable loans for our Pro Club Manchester
we’re also active in these spaces in relation to our
clients: Green and Social loans and Sustainability
CCB portfolio.
Linked Lending (SLL) loans. In 2024, CCB has written We’re increasing engagement with our clients to help them understand the challenges, risks, and
more than £501m green finance and a further opportunities of embedding ESG within their businesses. One event was hosted by our client Essential
Data quality
£487m of Sustainability Linked Lending. Sourcing Ltd during their Pro Club ESG Manchester.
As highlighted by our current PCAF data score of
4.0, our analysis is heavily reliant on proxy data.
We also recognise the challenges that SMEs face
Improving the coverage and accuracy of data for this
in accessing resources to support their green
portfolio is a key priority for us in the coming years.
transition. In 2024, we conducted research, which
showed the biggest barriers relate to limited We will review our analysis as data quality improves. Their interactive materiality assessment, As our Pro Club is focused on helping
financial resources, time constraints, and low using a three‑tier coffee supply chain case procurement professionals drive
awareness of government support. In response, study, engaged attendees in exploring the sustainability strategies, this innovative
we launched a green loan designed to help SMEs
sustainability challenges at each level— method sparked practical ideas and
fund energy efficiency projects, and we’re also
retailer, distributor, and producer. This perfectly aligned with one of our core
considering other ways in which we can support
our clients. creative approach highlighted the potential messages.”
conflicts in sustainability measures and
Mick Ramsden
fostered valuable discussion.
Director at Essential Sourcing Ltd
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
18
Environment continued
Consumer Finance Customers
We recognise that customer demand is the primary
In 2024, our Consumer Finance division continued driver of EV adoption and we aspire to understand
to support the transition to a low‑carbon barriers to adoption. Our dealership research reveals
economy through its consumer finance offering. that most respondents believe that government
Consumer Finance has achieved its £2bn target should play a central role in supporting the
for green finance lending by 2025. It has issued transition to EVs. We’ll use insights from our dealer
£2.97bn of green consumer finance in the UK since and customer research in 2025 to help develop
2021. Our lending portfolio now includes more than targeted strategies and advocate for policies that
105,884 low‑carbon vehicles.1 address these barriers.
Supporting our customers in the green transition Aiming to align our activity with the
We are supporting the UK’s transition to a UN Paris Agreement
sustainable transport model by offering financing In 2024, we enhanced our capability to report the
solutions that align with environmental goals. financed emissions from our automotive portfolio.
Through collaboration with manufacturers, We now track this monthly as part of a wider suite
dealerships, and infrastructure providers, we’ll aim of regular climate‑related governance reporting.
to help customers access greener vehicles and make We believe our portfolio is on a trajectory to meet
informed choices. our contribution towards Banco Santander level
2030 interim target.
Manufacturer
In 2024, six of Consumer Finance’s manufacturer We understand that achieving Banco Santander
partners had a net‑zero target. These partners level 2030 climate transition ambition will rely on
include our joint ventures Hyundai Capital and Volvo government intervention, the automotive industry’s
Capital, as well as Kia and Genesis. Our other partners progress towards their targets, and an increase
BYD and Polestar solely sell electric vehicles (EVs). in customer adoption of EVs. We aim to continue
to engage with multiple stakeholders to reduce
Dealership barriers to adoption in addition to adapting our
We work with 4,500 dealers across the UK. This year, product suite to support the transition.
we surveyed more than 300 members of our dealer
network. The survey explored factors influencing EV Data quality
adoption, the barriers consumers face, and dealers’ In 2024, we have focused on improving our data Financing Number of low‑carbon vehicles
sustainability strategies. Key findings included: quality. Our Consumer Finance business has strong
coverage of the assets we lend to, which gives us a £2.97bn 105,8841
– The biggest barriers to EV adoption good PCAF score of 2.1.
were customer misconceptions and
in green finance since or ‘1 in 10 vehicles financed’
affordability concerns
– Dealers suggested greater access to training January 2021 (11.4% of total portfolio)
and education alongside digital tools could
support sales
– Many dealers expressed an interest in finance
Total number of EVs financed Six
products to support the installation or
improvement of charging facilities, which could
26,770 Partners with net‑zero ambitions
help increase EV sales.
in 2024
1 T hese are defined as vehicles that emit less than,
or equal to, 50g CO2/km travelled.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
19
Environment continued
Reducing our own The Code focuses on expectations of third party
suppliers around topics such as environmental
environmental impact
policy, waste reduction and reporting. It also covers
human rights, modern slavery, and inclusive culture.
We continue working towards achieving net zero in
Obtaining agreement from suppliers to comply
our Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 2030, using 2019
with our Code forms a core part of deciding which
as our baseline. We are prioritising Scope 1 and
suppliers we work with.
2 emissions in our operational net zero ambition
where we can have direct control and implement
We updated our legal template and sourcing
targeted reduction strategies. For Scope 3 business
processes to set clear expectations for capturing
travel we have implemented a Responsible Traveller
emissions within our reporting.
programme to influence behavioural change to
support carbon reductions.
Additionally, we’re using industry leading technology
within our supply chain for heat mapping and impact
Properties
reporting. This enables us to identify risks areas and
In 2024, our market‑based Scope 1 and 2 emissions
target action with our suppliers.
decreased by 12% compared to 2023, contributing
to a total reduction of 65% from the 2019 baseline.
Commuting
This success was driven by:
We made good progress on assessing emissions
– Relocating to our new sustainability‑focused,
from employee commuting in 2024. We have
certified BREEAM excellent head office, Unity
enhanced our methodology for mapping employee
Place in Milton Keynes
locations, calculating distances to work, and
– Ongoing reductions in energy use across
estimating travel type.
our properties
– Enhanced building management systems for
Business travel
improved energy optimisation
In 2024, we launched the Responsible Travellers
– A rationalisation of our head office estate
campaign to optimise business travel planning
with the aim to reduce environmental impact.
We are actively developing our property strategy
Key elements included:
to deliver emissions reductions between
– Monthly no travel weeks
2025 to 2030 as we head to our 2030 goals.
– Guidance encouraging sustainable travel choices
Our approach includes a comprehensive review of
– Upgraded systems to assist colleagues in making
energy‑saving initiatives. Supply chain improvement
sustainable travel decisions.
Sustainable procurement In 2024, our Procurement team focused on upskilling our service managers to support our
These efforts have promoted better decision making
We continue to collaborate with our suppliers to sustainability ambitions. By building awareness of the environmental impacts of third‑party services,
and adoption of greener travel options.
reduce the environmental impact of our operations. we help our teams to engage suppliers in meaningful conversations about sustainability.
This focuses on tracking and reducing Scope 3
Ways of working
supply chain emissions and integrating sustainability As part of this initiative, we delivered training sessions on key topics. These included the significance of
In 2024, we made changes to our hybrid work
into our sourcing decisions. In 2024, we introduced supplier’s emissions, their role supporting the achievement of our 2050 net zero ambition, and practical
policy requiring staff to come into the office
a new Code of Supplier Responsibility, which is ways to align supplier practices with our sustainability goals.
12 days a month. We anticipate that this will
aligned with our wider sustainability ambitions.
increase our environmental impact, primarily
Further support was provided with an Emissions Playbook, a practical guide designed to help teams
relating to commuting and properties. We are
have informed discussions with suppliers. This guide also supports improvements to data collection
closely monitoring the impact of these changes
and a better understanding of supply chain emissions.
on a quarterly basis.
Through consistent training, regular engagement, and tailored resources, we’re embedding
sustainability into our supplier relationships and driving collective progress towards our climate goals.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
20
Environment continued
Engagement and partnerships Investor engagement – Tomorrow’s Skills, which analyses public Data and systems
Our Sustainability and Investor Relations teams held attitudes to the skills needed to support the UK’s
We engage in a number of initiatives that are ESG meetings with debt investors in 2024. We also transition to net zero, and how the Government High‑quality data is essential for understanding
focussed on supporting the transition to a continue to provide sustainability updates to our can support re‑skilling and addressing climate impact. It enables us to
low‑carbon economy. We collaborate with our credit rating agencies. These discussions focused – Research into how we can support SMEs on their track progress, identify opportunities, and deliver
customers, government, regulators, our people, on our overall Sustainability strategy, our net zero journey to net zero. transparent and accurate reporting.
investors, and our peers within industry groups. ambitions, and climate risk.
We are also an active member of the All‑Party We continue to use the Partnership for Carbon
Customer engagement Regulator engagement Parliamentary Group for the Environment. Accounting Financials (PCAF) as an indicator of our
As part of our ambition to support customers in We continue to engage with regulators as we data reliability. We use the PCAF for our Scope 3
the green transition, we provide solutions to help work towards our sustainability goals and broader Peer collaboration financed emissions calculations.
customers make their homes more energy efficient. sustainability aspirations. In 2024, we provided Collaboration with industry peers is a vital enabler
In 2024, we delivered 1.2 million emails to promote multiple updates to the Prudential Regulation of our Climate strategy. It allows us to share In 2024, we focused on enhancing data quality. For our
our Greener Homes Hub, our energy efficiency Authority (PRA), which included follow up to their insights and enable collective progress. We actively Mortgage portfolio, energy usage information is
partnerships, and cashback offers. The mailings thematic review. We also prepared to respond to the participate in several key industry groups including, sourced through EPCs, or modelled when unavailable,
have received positive feedback. requirements of the Financial Conduct Authority’s Green Finance Institute (GFI), Aldersgate Group, and resulting in a PCAF score of 3.2, which aligns with good
(FCA) anti‑greenwashing rule. We’ve integrated UK Finance. Through these partnerships, we work practices. In our Commercial Real Estate portfolio,
For CCB, we increased our engagement with throughout the business with communications and alongside our peers to address shared challenges, reliance on proxy data resulted in a PCAF score of 4.0,
clients to help them understand the challenges marketing guidelines, greenwashing risk appetite, influence policy, and support the transition to a prompting a data enhancement programme to improve
and opportunities of the sustainability agenda. product risk factors, and training and awareness for low‑carbon economy. EPC coverage. In Consumer Finance, we have strong
Throughout the year, we delivered a series of our staff. asset coverage, leading to a PCAF score of 2.1.
initiatives, including five sustainability roundtables
across the UK. Government and policy engagement
Engagement with the UK Government is a key part
Staff engagement of our Climate strategy. We depend on timely and
Engagement with our people is crucial for achieving appropriate government policies to support our Build Ahead UK Coalition
our sustainability goals. In 2024, we developed climate ambitions and those of our customers.
bespoke training session to help our teams to be Santander are a founding partner of the Build
better equipped with the knowledge and skills to The key policies we have identified that support the Ahead UK Coalition alongside PLP Architecture,
support our customers in their sustainability journey. transition to a low‑carbon economy include: and the Accelerating Concrete Decarbonisation
– Minimum EPC requirements for owner occupiers, Group supported by Derwent Plc.
Piloted at our Oxford branch in September, the buy‑to‑let, commercial properties, and
training increased confidence, as noted by Jamie social housing This initiative is led by Xyneteo, and seeks to
Scott‑Lee, Primary Market Manager, “The training – The Future Homes Standard create tangible outcomes across the entire
and the support have given me confidence to talk to – Internal combustion engine ban. value chain for Commercial Real Estate,
customers about how we can help them.” with workstreams covering materials,
Throughout the year, we have engaged with the UK design, construction and financing.
Following positive feedback, we’ll deliver the Government on net‑zero policy through a series of
session to further branches within Q1 2025. We also research reports and thought leadership, including:
developed a new mandatory ESG training for all – Tomorrow’s Homes, which looks at consumer
employees that will be launched in 2025. barriers to home energy efficiency improvements.
The report, identifies key Government
interventions in funding, communications, and
skills development to stimulate the market Launch event
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
21
Environment continued
To support our Santander UK Climate strategy we engage with external partners and initiatives
*Group‑led
Government Industry Industry Strategic Academic
Regulators
and public policy global UK partners partners
*Global Counsel Prudential Regulation World Economic Forum: UK Finance Aldersgate Group National Parks UK Sustainability Unlocked
ESG‑related public policy Authority (PRA) Alliance of CEO Climate leaders Sustainability Committee; A politically impartial, Founding member Net Zero with Sustainability education for our
monitoring. and International Business International Sustainability multi‑stakeholder alliance Nature (nature‑based carbon people.
Climate Financial Risk Forum
Council Regulations; UK Sustainability championing a prosperous, credits).
Environment All‑Party (CFRF) Carbon Literacy Project and
Regulations; Climate disclosure net‑zero emissions,
Parliamentary Group Shares best practice across the UNEP Finance Initiative Net Zero Group Auto Trader
code; Green Finance Strategy; environmentally sustainable
Strengthens the influence of finance industry to advance In 2019, we signed up to the Carbon footprint calculator and Auto finance‑specific
Transition Task Force; economy.
parliamentarians on public responses to the financial risks UNEP FI Principles for education tool for our Consumer sustainability training for our
Mortgages; SMEs; and Climate
policy. Its activities span three from climate change. Responsible Banking Chapter Zero Finance customers. Consumer Finance people.
Risk.
broad themes: climate and is a group for non‑executive
Financial Conduct Authority UN Global Compact UK *Banking Environment
energy, waste and resources, Green Finance Institute (GFI) directors (NEDs) and chairs
(FCA) Network Initiative (BEI)
and natural environment. TNFD UK National Consulting who are integrating climate
Climate Financial Risk Forum; Banco Santander has been a Coordinated by the Cambridge
Group; founding member of action into business strategy.
Scenario Analysis Working member of the Global Network Institute for Sustainability
Coalition for Energy Efficiency of This includes NEDs from
Group. since 2022. In 2024, Santander Leadership (CISL), we continue
Buildings (CEEB) and financing Santander UK.
UK signed up to the UK Network to take part in the Bank 2030
for nature group.
initiative, which aims to create a
*Taskforce on Nature‑related
Build Ahead UK roadmap for the banking sector
Financial Disclosures
Partnership to seek the to support broader society’s
(TNFD) Forum
development of the UK’s first transition to a low‑carbon
Contributing to the work of the
truly zero carbon buildings – and economy.
Taskforce and TNFD framework
shape the market for the next
* Taskforce for Climate‑related 10,000.
Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
Forum
Contributing to the work of the
Taskforce and TCFD framework.
*Net Zero Banking Alliance
(NZBA)
A group of global banks
committed to financing the
economy to net zero greenhouse
gas emissions by 2050.
*Partnership for Carbon
Accounting Financials (PCAF)
An industry‑led initiative
standardising the measurement
and disclosure of greenhouse
gas emissions from financial
activities.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
22
Environment continued
Embedding climate in risk The Sustainability team leads the ESG Leadership – Client Environmental Risk and Opportunities Santander UK supports Banco Santander to work
Forum, which is responsible for implementing our Model (CEROM): Process to identify corporate towards our ambition of net zero emissions by
management
Sustainability strategy. The team works with the client‑specific risks and finance opportunities. 2050. Banco Santander has set a global ambition
different business segments on calculating financed Owned by ESCC Risk team and CCB. for Santander UK Consumer Finance lending.
Managing climate‑related risks
emissions and developing our internal climate Banco Santander continues to assess options for
To manage the risks associated with climate
transition plan. These workstreams are supported by our ESG data emissions ambitions for other portfolios as progress
change, we have two key policies. Our Environment,
programme, owned by the Chief Financial Officer, is made at a global level.
Social, and Climate Change Prohibitions and
The ESCC Risk team reviews the impact of our net which ensures access to robust and consistent
Special Attention Risk Management policy sets
zero aligned commercial activities and assesses ESCC‑related data. Santander UK has no appetite for breaches
out the sectors we consider high‑risk from a
the overall risk position and credit risk. The team of greenwashing regulation. All‑customer
climate perspective.
feeds the results of our Climate Internal Scenario Risk appetite communications, marketing, and product offerings
Analysis (CISA) and Client Environmental Risk and We continue to review our climate change risk that have a sustainability or ESG claim must
Our ESCC Risk policy outlines the steps our risk
Opportunities Model (CEROM) into our internal appetite. In 2024, we made significant progress in be assessed by the Environmental, Social and
teams will take to identify, assess, manage, and
climate transition plan. The ESCC Risk team reports developing a risk appetite statement. According to Governance Panel Meeting. Any reporting of Green,
report on climate‑related risks in our business and
risk status through the ESG Leadership Forum, and this, the UK ring‑fenced bank will restrict clients Social, or Sustainable Finance is required to comply
our primary supply chain.
is informed by our Climate Stress Test Steering or transactions that fail to comply with the ESCC with Santander’s internal classification system for
Committee and ad hoc Climate Risk Working Risk Management policy of the Banco Santander sustainable finance.
Our aim is to follow and apply best practices,
Groups. Through this governance structure we also group. This aligns with our ambition to finance
international standards, treaties, and references,
embed our ESCC Risk policy and ESCC Prohibitions environmentally and socially responsible activities We’ll also use the output of our 2024 CISA in a
and to make sure our customers adhere to them
and Special Attention Risk Management policy. and positively contribute to the transition to a review of risk appetite across our business lines.
where relevant. These include:
The team also confirms compliance with the PRA’s low‑carbon, climate‑resilient economy. For more information on the 2024 Climate Internal
– The Equator Principles
climate‑related supervisory statement SS3/19. Scenario Analysis (CISA) please see the scenario
– The standards for social and environmental
analysis section of this report.
performance and the explanatory notes of the
Our risk management framework
International Finance Corporation (IFC)
The risks associated with climate and Our UK risk management framework
– The United Nations Global Compact – The
environmental change are key issues for Santander
Universal Declaration of Human Rights
UK and our stakeholders. Embedding climate
– The International Labour Organisation Declaration Business strategy Risk appetite statement
and environmental considerations in risk
– The Convention on the Rights of the Child
management is an integral part of our Climate
– The Rio Declaration on Environment
strategy. Climate‑related risks are monitored
– The United Nations Convention Risk management cycle
at the Board Risk Committee and Executive Risk
against Corruption.
Control Committee.
We also follow standards specific to activities in
We incorporate regulatory and strategic ESCC Identification Assessment Monitoring Mitigation Reporting
the oil and gas, power generation, and mining
objectives through four key workstreams. These are:
and metals sectors, and those associated with
businesses engaged in soft commodities. – Climate Internal Scenario Analysis (CISA): Credit • Market • Liquidity • Capital • Operational • Reputational • Others
Identifies long‑term risks and opportunities
Our climate risk operating model arising under climate pathways. Owned by ESCC ESG risk factors
risk team
Our Sustainability and Environment, Social, and
– Internal Climate Transition Plan: Sets out
Climate Change (ESCC) Risk teams have the most
the UN Paris Agreement aligned pathway to
important role in our climate risk identification and Risk policies and frameworks
meet our 2050 net zero ambition. Owned by
management activities. These teams are responsible
Sustainability team
for integrating climate change considerations into
– Green Finance Programme: Identifies product
the business across the first and second lines of our Other risk management processes: underwriting, rating, customer engagement, etc.
innovations, partnerships, and education and
risk defence model.
communications to help our customers meet
their net‑zero ambitions. Responsibility of our
business segments
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
23
Environment continued
Climate, Environment Risk and CEROM enables environmental risk to be assessed Climate risks Operational risk and resilience risk
Opportunity Model as part of the credit admissions process, which Climate change has a clear impact on operational
In 2024, we enhanced our Climate Risk Assessment meets regulatory obligations. It does this by Identifying, assessing, and managing our risk. Extreme weather may force closures or damage
Model (CRAM) to create the Climate, Environment examining our clients’ understanding, strategy, climate risks is a key part of our Climate strategy. to our offices, data centres, and branches. It could
Risk and Opportunity Model (CEROM). This model and funding for climate‑related risks in their own The complexity of climate change translates into damage services provided by our suppliers, which
looks to better understand the needs of our business and their supply chain. a diverse range of risks. The second pillar of our may affect our ability to operate.
customers and their journey to net zero. Climate strategy addresses these risks. We assess
The biggest changes from the previous CRAM are our exposure to climate‑related risk and establish Reputational risk
CEROM is owned by the ESCC Risk team and CCB. assessing clients’ nature and social risk exposures processes to manage and respond to them. Reputational risks linked to climate change may
It aims to identify specific risks and transition and identifying opportunities for green finance. Our systems provide data inputs for our strategic arise from our own business activities, from failing
finance opportunities linked to corporate clients. This enables us to establish a climate risk, nature and financial decision making. We’re also building to meet sustainability ambitions, or by failing to
The purpose of this development is to expand our risk, and social risk rating for each client and confirm our capability to test the resilience of our business deliver for our customers. We are also mindful of
understanding of environmental risk across our that they are aware of the impacts on their business. strategy and business against climate risks and the counterparties that we lend to and the need to
lending portfolio. their impacts. ensure potential green lending does not undermine
positive efforts on climate change elsewhere.
Physical risks Reputational risk may also arise from greenwashing,
Climate, Environment Risk and Opportunity Model (CEROM) Sectors These result from the direct impacts of climate for example incorrectly classifying and reporting
change such as increasing severity and frequency of assets as green or sustainable. Similarly, the
Knowledge and Does the customer demonstrate good knowledge and/or seem extreme weather events. They can be acute (event perception of not meeting, sufficiently progressing
understanding well advised on climate change issues? driven) or chronic. Chronic risks tend to materialise with, or providing transparency on climate‑related
in the medium‑to‑longer term due to progressive ambitions is a reputational risk.
climate shifts.
Does the customer have a climate action strategy, articulating Pension risk
Strategy
climate change related risks, opportunities and actions planned? Transitional risks Climate change may present long‑term risks to the
These relate to the process of adjustment towards a value and security of pension scheme investments.
low‑carbon economy. They arise from policymaking, There is a risk that pension fund investments could
What are the customer‑assessed physical risks in the context of its own
Physical risk technology, market sentiment, and reputation be made without considering climate‑related risks
business including flood, coastal, and other extreme weather events?
changes in response to climate change. as our schemes are managed by trustees.
These risks manifest across many of our existing Liquidity risk
Transition risk Customer self‑assessment of own business and their supply chain risk categories: Climate risk may result in increased withdrawals
of deposits. This could result from acute physical
Credit risk hazards or negative customer sentiment arising
Where delivery of the customer’s climate change strategy and/or the
Certain sectors will be affected more than others from a reputational event.
Funding risk impact of physical and transition risks are forecast to lead to increased costs
by climate risk. Some sectors may be affected by
(operating and capital), what is envisaged to be the primary source of funding?
transition risks such as transport, and others will
be more affected by physical risk. Physical climate
Nature risk Does the customer assess nature and biodiversity risks risks may give rise to credit losses if weather‑related
in the context of its operations and to what extent? events affect customers’ ability to repay their debts.
Collateral values could also be affected by damage
to physical assets. Transition risks include changes
To what extent does the customer engage with local communities
Social risk in government policy relating to residential homes
and stakeholders to understand and address social concerns?
and property value. For example, closing the Flood
Re Scheme impacts homeowners who have been
Is the customer interested in securing green finance for environmental flooded or are in high flood risk areas, and their
Opportunities improvement projects and how can Santander UK support them? ability to get flood insurance.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
Opportunities
Policy: Future Homes Standard Zero emission vehicle mandate
UK Government Clean Power Action Plan
Research
Proposed minimum energy efficiency standards for social housing,
Customer research to understand barriers to action Buy to let, and non‑domestic rental sector
Government engagement to share research and market experience
Residential Mortgages
Grow our green mortgage lending book Support growing energy efficiency market
Consumer Finance
Develop new relationships with manufacturers aligned to net zero
Corporate and Commercial
Opportunity to support growing energy efficiency market
Support our clients in their transition
Grow our Project Finance book driven by UK Government Clean Power Action Plan
Own Operations
Reduce the impact of our estate
Influence the sustainability of our supply chain
2023 Short term 2027 Medium term 2030 Long term 2050
Risks
24
Environment continued
Physical Risks
More frequent and severe climate events that may lead to damage or disruption within our lending portfolios, own operations, or supply chain
Impact on asset values due to increased levels of physical risk
Transitional Risks
Cost of transition impacts on credit risk profiles of our retail and commercial clients
New EPC laws strand low efficiency properties
Insufficient, untimely, or poor quality data prevents us from accurately assessing the risks and opportunities arising from the transition
Poorly performed energy efficiency improvements or unsuitable customer advice increases conduct related risks
Rapid technological developments within the car industry increases residual value risk as older electric vehicles depreciate more rapidly than anticipated
Rapidly evolving regulatory landscape for net zero could lead to reputational risks of non compliance
Reputational risk of not maintaining pace with UK market progress towards net zero
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
25
Environment continued
Climate opportunities Consumer Finance
The transition to electric vehicles has provided
The impacts of climate change pose risks to the opportunity for new manufacturers to enter
our business, but also create opportunities for and expand in the UK market. This provides the
Santander UK, our clients, and the wider economy. opportunity to grow our partnerships in this area.
To maximise these opportunities, we established a Combined with the Zero Emissions Vehicle Mandate,
Green Finance function. The function will identify there is a short‑to‑medium‑term opportunity to
and explore how we can best support our customers finance greener hybrid and electric vehicles.
in their green transition. Below are key opportunities
across our lending products. Additionally, the shift to electric vehicles also opens
opportunities to expand into complementary
Mortgages products. This includes financing charging and
In the short term, there is an opportunity to infrastructure, which will enable us to strengthen
develop a green mortgage lending book, driven our position in the wider electric vehicles market.
by increasing regulation on improving energy
efficiency. This will enable us to reduce our financed Research
emissions footprint. Insights on attitudes and With our ambition of making our customers’
barriers to energy efficiency improvements from our better happen, there is a significant opportunity
Tomorrow’s Homes report help us to design test and to collaborate on research with our university
learn initiatives to support our customers. partners to better understand challenges and
potential solutions.
In the medium term, the need to improve energy
efficiency in the UK’s housing stock creates the This is particularly relevant for sectors like housing,
opportunity to offer our customers tailored energy green skills, and SMEs. In these areas, we aim
efficiency improvement products aligned with to identify the necessary actions to inform our
market and policy developments. engagement with the government. In this way,
our findings can help to shape the development of
Corporate and Commercial Banking effective policies.
CCB understands the importance of providing
Renewable and Clean Energy sector
sustainable finance options to companies in Operations
all industries. We currently offer two types of Aligning our own properties to the UN Paris
Globally, we are one of the largest lenders Working alongside Santander has
sustainable loans for our clients: Green and Social Agreement goals presents a significant opportunity
to renewable energy and clean technology enable us to secure projects and bring
loans and Sustainability Linked Lending (SLL) loans. to lead by example. By implementing energy
projects. Banco Santander has been a leader
In the short term, we will conduct further research efficient systems, using renewable power, and forward pipelines. We hope to play a
in renewable energy finance for more than
to better understand the challenges faced by our improving energy efficiency, we can reduce vital role in helping the UK meets its
10 years. In 2024, we were among the top
clients. This will help us develop pilot products and our carbon footprint and operational costs. banks in number of deals and deal value globally net‑zero ambitions.”
solutions that can support them in the best way. The transition to net zero will also impact our supply
according to Infralogic. In the UK, we continue to
chains, and we are working to support our suppliers’ support the expanding renewables and battery Neil Wood
The UK Government’s Clean Power 2030 Action sustainability efforts. Collaborating with suppliers energy storage sector. Partner at Bluefield Partners LLP
Plan offers opportunities to increase our financing on sustainability initiatives can identify innovative
of renewable energy infrastructure and battery solutions, deliver cost savings, and strengthen
storage solutions. Additionally, our Commercial partnerships. We can also learn from those already
Real Estate portfolio provides potential to support making progress and adopt best practices.
energy efficiency improvement projects aligned with
proposed future government policies.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
26
Environment continued
Climate risk in our As part of our proactive risk management approach, Energy efficiency risk To mitigate these risks, we are working on initiatives
we continuously evaluate the potential impact of Energy efficiency ratings have been identified as to support our customers improve the energy
mortgage portfolio
physical climate risks on the value and resilience a potential transitional climate risk within our efficiency their homes to improve the EPC rating.
of our portfolio. This includes assessing changes in mortgage portfolio, due to UK governments Additional information on these initiatives and
Flood risk (physical climate risk)
the flood risk annually, utilising detailed scenario proposals to require minimum EPC ratings. partnerships can be found on page 15.
Flooding represents one of the most significant
analysis to anticipate the implications of evolving This poses a risk as properties with lower EPC
physical climate risks to our Mortgage portfolio.
climate conditions. Notably, there were no material ratings may see a decrease in their asset valuations.
Using post‑code data, we conducted an assessment
changes in flood risk across our portfolio in 2024.
of flood risk for every Santander UK mortgage.
To better understand this risk, we monitor and
Flood probability is expressed as a ratio, where a 1
The figures presented in the map show the current disclose the energy performance of properties
in 30‑year flood event (1:30) refers to the likelihood
annual high and medium flood risk for all mortgage across our mortgage portfolio. In 2024, 42% of
of flooding occurring in a given year. Almost 95% of
accounts open on 31 December 2024. Flood risk properties on our mortgage books had an EPC rating
properties in our portfolio fall into the very low or
estimates are based on the likelihood of winter of A to C, from 40.9% in 2023 an increase of 1.1%.
negligible flood risk categories.
precipitation exceeding 6mm per day and consider This has been driven primarily by a increase in EPC
coastal, river, and pluvial flooding. C properties.
EPC ratings (A‑G) for residential mortgages as Regional distribution of EPC ratings (A‑B)
Climate risk by region
a percentage of the total number of mortgages
where an EPC is recorded for 2024 and 2023
A London
0.4% 16%
0.3% 16%
B Midlands
Scotland 15.0% 21%
14.9% 22%
% of total flood risk: 1.1%
% of EPC ratings (Real) E‑G: 3% C North
26.6% 18%
25.7% 18%
D South East
Northern Ireland 40.3% 29%
% of total flood risk: 2.2% North 40.5% 28%
% of EPC ratings (Real) E‑G: 4% % of total flood risk: 0.9% E Northern Ireland
% of EPC ratings (Real) E‑G: 20% 14.4% 1%
14.9% 1%
F Scotland
South West and Wales Midlands 2.8% 4%
% of total flood risk: 0.9% % of total flood risk: 0.6% 3.0% 4%
% of EPC ratings (Real) E‑G: 14% % of EPC ratings (Real) E‑G: 19% G Southwest and Wales
0.6% 11%
London 0.6% 12%
2024 2024
South East % of total flood risk: 1.3% 2023 2023
% of EPC ratings (Real) E‑G: 16%
% of total flood risk: 1.3%
% of EPC ratings (Real) E‑G: 25%
Note: Sourced from Landmark. Distribution of registered Note: Sourced from Landmark. Distribution of registered
EPCs. 2024 distribution including modelled EPCs: A:0.3%, EPCs. 2024 distribution including modelled EPCs:
B:11.7%, C:24.1%, D:47.7%, E: 13.4%, F:2.3% and G:0.5% LDN:16%, ML:21%, NO:18%, SE:28%, NIRE:2%, SCOT:4%,
SW&W:11%
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
27
Environment continued
Climate stress testing Delayed transition scenario Compared to our five‑year delayed transition shock Looking ahead we will continue enhancing our
A delayed transition scenario, could lead to an scenario in 2022, peak losses were higher, primarily modelling capabilities. This includes using more
and scenario analysis
increase in losses of up to 20% over 30‑years due to energy price stress. granular data to upgrade the model outputs and
against the baseline scenario. improving our understanding of climate‑related
Scenario analysis helps us recognise our exposure
Sensitivity scenario – physical event risks. We’ll continue monitoring the industry’s best
to climate‑related financial risks. It also allows us to
A delayed transition scenario could lead to an To better understand tail risks, we ran a sensitivity practices and incorporate them in our approach.
explore the actions required to manage these risks.
increase in losses of 20% over 30‑years against scenario. This focused on compounding a real estate
the baseline scenario. The largest losses were price shock, with a material flood event due to the We’ll also use our new climate modelling capability
In 2024, we developed the capability to run internal
concentrated in our Retail mortgages book and our failure of the Thames Barrier. This event would to explore more severe tail risk events and
models and scenarios within our CISA. Our scenarios
Corporate and Commercial Banking portfolio. be material because Greater London accounts for sensitivities. This will include second‑order supply
meet regulatory expectations while also offering
around 25% of the exposure of our retail mortgages. chain impacts.
multiple use cases for the business.
Retail mortgage losses were driven by a reduction in
customer affordability through the economic impact Under this sensitivity scenario, we projected a
CISA provides a long‑horizon, dynamic balance
of the transition. Additional stress arises from 5% increase in losses. The results of our scenario
sheet assessment of transitional and physical risks
mandated minimum EPC policy. analysis show that we are not materially exposed
to expected physical climate risks within the
The modelling approach for CISA uses Santander
Corporate and Commercial Banking losses 30‑year period assessed. The risk is mitigated
UK’s existing stress test methodologies and
were attributed to the impact of policy changes due to low average loan‑to‑value ratio across our
infrastructure. It now also applies assumptions on
on macroeconomic factors. However, this was Mortgage and CCB portfolios and the FloodRe
how climate change may affect the probability of
mitigated by our portfolio having no sector insurance scheme.
default and collateral values, including:
concentration and low exposure in carbon
intensive sectors.
– Simulation of new business by EPC rating
– Regional HPI to project collateral values
– Collateral and Probability of Default (PD)
CISA scenario Baseline Delayed transition Sensitivity
adjustments based on the likelihood of climate
risks, costs, and insurability
– Sectoral Gross Value Added pathway. Scenario characteristics Reflects current landscape and Policy is late and disorderly. Residential and commercial real estate
government policies. It is used to provide Stringent government policies downward price shock (based on 2008)
Impacts are split between physical risks, specifically a basis for other scenarios to compare to. implemented in 2030 causing inflationary sensitivity combined with Thames Barrier
flood, subsidence, and coastal erosion, and The baseline scenario is aligned to our and financial instability. Sectoral business flood event, on the baseline scenario.
transitional risks such as changing government internal climate transition plan. disruption and consumer affordability
policy and reduced affordability through rising are stressed.
energy costs.
Time horizon 30 years 30 years 30 years
In CISA 2023, we performed a desktop physical
risk assessment .To build upon this assessment,
Mean Global Warming 1.9ºC 1.6ºC 1.9ºC
we chose a delayed transition scenario for CISA
by 2050
2024, to be run alongside a climate baseline
scenario. This enabled us to identify any risks and
opportunities that could arise on our balance sheet Nature of physical risks Medium Low with acceleration over time Medium
from transition risk. The table below shows the
scenarios we explored. Nature of transition Partial Disruptive Partial
Transition start date 2023 Q4 2030 Q1 2023 Q4
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
28
Environment continued
Environment
continued
Category Notes Units 2024 2023 2022
Total energy consumption The reduction in our total energy consumption was due to a decrease in natural gas usage and overall MWh 89,994,215 93,387,392 103,156,234
(Santander UK Group Holdings plc) rationalisation across the Santander Head Office Estate.
Total fossil energy consumption The reduction in our energy consumption from fossil fuels was due to a decrease in natural gas usage, MWh 11,385,917 – –
(Santander UK Group Holdings plc) refurbishments, and degasification projects across the estate.
Total Renewable energy consumption Energy consumption from renewable sources increased slightly in 2024, driven by the addition of Unity MWh 78,374,651 – –
(Santander UK Group Holdings plc) Place, an all‑electric building.
Water Consumption (m3)(Santander The increase in water consumption can be attributed to a rise in staff returning to offices across m3 135,907 123,355 107,719
UK plc) the estate.
Total waste: (Santander UK plc) Due to adjustments made to align data points with Banco Santander, in some cases data is not equally kg 581,084 – –
comparable to previous years and therefore, for these data points, comparatives are not provided. As
part of ‘total waste’, electronic and hazardous waste are new metrics for 2024. This metric is made up
of three types of waste:
1. Hazardous waste: 3,527.5kg
2. Electronic waste: 43,130kg
3. Paper and cardboard waste: 534,426kg
Recycled waste: (Santander UK plc) Due to adjustments made to align data points with Banco Santander, in some cases data is not equally kg 577,556 – –
comparable to previous years and therefore, for these data points, comparatives are not provided.
Recycled waste is a combination of electronic and paper and cardboard waste:
1. Electronic waste: 43,130kg
2. Paper and cardboard waste: 534,426kg
Scope 1 COe emissions (Santander The reduction in Scope 1 emissions is primarily due to a reduction in natural gas consumption driven by tCOe AS 2,473 2,827 4,512
2 2
UK Group Holdings plc) refurbishments and degasification projects across the estate.
Scope 2 tCOe (Location‑based) The increase in Scope 2 location‑based emissions is attributed to the addition of Unity Place, an tCOe 16,259 16,1901 15,5951
2 2
(Santander UK Group Holdings plc) all‑electric building, and a rise in staff returning to offices across the estate.
Scope 2 COe emissions In 2024, a new data source identified for Jersey provides a more accurate reflection of the emissions tCOe AS 65 631 241
2 2
(Market‑based) (Santander UK Group profile of our operations in this location. As such, 2022 and 2023 emissions have been updated.
Holdings plc) Therefore, Scope 2 market‑based emissions remain broadly unchanged, as Santander UK plc’s
electricity comes from REGO‑backed renewable energy sources. Residual emissions come from
the SFS entity as no fully green electricity provider is available for Jersey and the Isle of Man.
Key: 2024 data has been subject to Independent Limited Assurance by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, please refer to the Assurance Opinion in this supplement. See our 2020, 2021, 2022, 2023 supplements for the prior
AS
performance period and assurance by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. Please refer to the Methodologies and data criteria section of this supplement for further details of how we have prepared our 2024 data.
1 S copAeS 2 location based figures have been amended from 2023 ‑ 16,211 to 16,190 and 2022 ‑ 15,624 to 15,595. Scope 2 market based figures have been amended from
2023 ‑ 84 to 63 and 2022 ‑ 53 to 24. Both are driven by updated emissions factors for Jersey properties. Please see the basis of reporting for updated methodology details.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
29
Environment continued
Environment
continued
Category Notes Units 2024 2023 2022
Scope 3 COe emissions In 2024, we made changes to our hybrid work policy to encourage more face‑to‑face meetings. tCOe AS 3,039 2,527 1,398
2 2
(business travel only) (Santander UK Consequently, business travel and the corresponding emissions have increased. In previous years,
Group Holdings plc) business travel data for Santander UK plc excluded employee’s who had left the business or were
temporarily absent within a given reporting period. It was later determined that this exclusion was
incorrect and therefore, a manual uplift was calculated and applied. This data has not been corrected
retrospectively, but for 2024 and moving forwards such employees have been, and will remain
included in the travel data. The 2022‑2023 data has not been updated due to the estimated uplift
remaining reasonable based on the assumptions adopted and the movement compared to the
2024 actuals.
Total COe emissions Total COe emissions (excluding financed emissions) have increased in 2024. This increase was primarily tCOe AS 5,577 5,4171 5,9341
2 2 2
(excluding financed emissions) driven by a rise in business travel emissions due to both a change in our hybrid working policy and a
(Santander UK Group Holdings plc) correction to our reporting methodology (please see business travel note for further details). However,
the increase in business travel emissions was offset by a decrease in our Scope 1 emissions due to our
degasification efforts.
COe emissions per employee Emissions per employee have increased, due to the increase in total emissions in addition to a reduction tCOe/Total AS 0.29 0.27 0.322
2 2
(excluding financed emissions) in FTE headcount. HoldCo FTE
(Santander UK Group Holdings plc)
Key: 2024 data has been subject to Independent Limited Assurance by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, please refer to the Assurance opinion in this supplement. See our 2020, 2021, 2022, 2023 supplements for the prior
AS
performance period and assurance by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. Please refer to the Methodologies and data criteria section of this supplement for further details of how we have prepared our 2024 data.
1 T his figure has been amended from 2023 ‑ 5,438 to 5,417 and 2022 ‑ 5,963 to 5,934. These are driven by updated emissions factors for Jersey properties.
Please see the basis of reporting for updated methodology details.
2 T his figure has been amended from 2022 ‑ 0.31 to 0.32. This is driven by updated emissions factors for Jersey properties. Please see the basis of reporting
for updated methodology details.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
30
Environment continued
Environment
continued
Category Notes Units 2024 2023 2022
Offsetting carbon emissions tCOe 2,538 – –
2
Scope 1 and Scope 2 (Santander UK
Group Holdings)
Carbon credits cancelled from tCOe 2,538 – –
2
elimination projects (Santander UK
Group Holdings)
Carbon credits cancelled from tCOe 0 – –
2
reduction projects (Santander UK
Group Holdings)
Carbon credits cancelled from tCOe 0 – –
2
quality standard VCS Verra
(Santander UK Group Holdings)
In 2024, 2,538 carbon credits were purchased and cancelled from the Climate Action Reserve.
Carbon credits cancelled from tCOe 0 – –
2
quality standard Gold Standard GS
(Santander UK Group Holdings)
Carbon credits cancelled from quality tCOe 0 – –
2
standard American Carbon Registry
(Santander UK Group Holdings)
Carbon credits cancelled from quality tCOe 2,538 – –
2
standard Climate Action Reserve
(Santander UK Group Holdings)
Carbon credits cancelled from tCOe 0 – –
2
projects within the EU (Santander UK
Group Holdings)
Key: 2024 data has been subject to Independent Limited Assurance by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, please refer to the Assurance opinion in this supplement. See our 2020, 2021, 2022, 2023 supplements for the prior
AS
performance period and assurance by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. Please refer to the Methodologies and data criteria section of this supplement for further details of how we have prepared our 2024 data.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
31
Environment continued
Environment
continued
Category Notes Sub category Units 2024 2023 2022
Scope 3 financed emissions Absolute emissions thousand tCOe AS – 1,221 2,561
This year we saw a material change in the emissions intensity of 2
(Mortgages)
our Mortgage portfolio. This was primarily due to using Partnership for Emissions intensity kgCOe/m2 AS – 20.9 39.7
2
Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF) emission factors rather than emissions
values derived from properties EPC as well as PCAF updating its emissions PCAF score # AS – 3.2 3.3
factor database. We believe this update provides a better representation of
current grid emissions factors per EPC band for buildings in the UK. To a lesser Lending exposure £bn – 175.3 187.1
AS
extent, this change is also attributed to an improvement in the efficiency and assessed
size of our book though the delivery of our mortgage business strategy.
Total exposure £bn – 176.9 187.5
Scope 3 financed emissions Absolute emissions thousand tCOe AS – 1,336 1,366
2
(Consumer Finance)
Emissions intensity gCOe/km AS – 141.3 142.5
2
The reduction in emissions intensity of our Consumer Finance book between PCAF score # AS – 2.1 3.1
2022 and 2023, is consistent with higher sales of greener vehicles.
Lending exposure £bn – 8.6 8.3
AS
assessed
Total exposure £bn – 8.8 8.5
Scope 3 financed emissions Absolute emissions thousand tCOe AS – 114 –
2
(Commercial Real Estate)
Emissions intensity kgCOe/m2 AS – 25.4 –
2
This year we present our initial assessment of the emissions intensity of
PCAF score # AS – 4.0 –
our Commercial Real Estate, Social Housing, Care Homes, and Hotels portfolio.
The low PCAF data quality score for this book reflects current data challenges. Lending exposure £bn – 9.6 –
AS
assessed
Total exposure £bn – 9.7 –
Key: On this page 2023 data has been subject to Independent Limited Assurance by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, please refer to the Assurance opinion in this supplement. See our 2020, 2021, 2022, 2023 supplements for
AS
the prior performance period and assurance by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. Please refer to the Methodologies and data criteria section of this supplement for further details of how we have prepared our 2023 data.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
32
Environment continued
Environment
continued
Category Notes Units 2024 2023 2022
Green finance raised and facilitated This was driven primarily by growth in retail mortgages for EPC A and B properties and lending £bn AS 3.9 2.8 6.5
for electric and certain hybrid vehicles, in addition to overall growth in our Commercial Real Estate
Green finance raised and facilitated portfolio. £bn 17.2 13.3 10.5
since 2021
Sustainability Linked Loans Sustainability Linked Lending Loans has decreased year‑on‑year due to less demand from our clients. £m 487 659 –
Key: 2024 data has been subject to Independent Limited Assurance by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, please refer to the Assurance opinion in this supplement. See our 2020, 2021, 2022, 2023 supplements for the prior
AS
performance period and assurance by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. Please refer to the Methodologies and data criteria section of this supplement for further details of how we have prepared our 2024 data.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
In this section
Social
Find out how we are
aligning to the UN SDG’s
34
Social
Our approach
to social
Our progress and targets Highlights Santander UK’s Social strategy
Over £7m Over 2.6 million
Support productive inclusive growth across our main stakeholders:
investment in education, Customers proactively engaged to offer Our customers, Our communities and Our People
entrepreneurship, employability support to those who are showing signs of
Ambition: £8m per year until 2027 potential financial difficulty Our Customers Our Communities Our People
14.7% 1 Over £10m
senior Asian, Black, and other Minority Invested in community support initiatives
Ethnic employees
Ambition: 16% by 2026
c.670,000 Making their better happen Better communities Unleash potential
34.1% 1 Five to sixteen year olds were given access Education, employability, and
Financial health Social mobility in the workplace
to The Numbers Game financial education entrepreneurship
Financial inclusion Talent and skills development
senior female representation resources in 2024. Financial education
Social financing (Social housing) Inclusive culture
Ambition: 40% by 2030 Vulnerable people
Top 25
Key Enablers
Ranked in the top 25 in the Social Mobility
Partnerships Strategic
Foundation Employer Index Communication Data
and collaborations workforce planning
UK Best Bank
In 2025, we’ll introduce our new Social strategy It aims to strengthen communities by equipping
designed to foster productive and inclusive growth an increasing number of people with the skills
2024 Euromoney Awards for Excellence – UK
within our customers, communities, and employees. necessary to advance their career opportunities.
Best Bank in Diversity and Inclusion
In partnership with Banco Santander, this strategy
1 S antander UK’s workforce is in the UK and these goals will empower our customers to thrive by enhancing
are focused in the UK, and in compliance with relevant
their financial health, promoting financial inclusion,
UK law. These goals support business performance and
and providing access to social finance.
all employment decisions are based on merit.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
35
Social continued
Our Customers Vulnerable customers
We’ve expanded the provision of British Sign
We’re focused on supporting our customers’ Language (BSL) translation services. In 2024,
financial inclusion and financial health. We work to we launched the online tool, Signly, which
identify products, services, and initiatives to help translates santander.co.uk webpages into BSL.
people who struggle to access financial services or This complements 24/7 BSL interpretation services
those in financial distress. We also want to support provided by our partners Sign Video. Sign Video
our customers to develop the skills needed to offers a call back service and branch users can get
manage their finances. immediate access to an interpreter by connecting
their mobile to Sign Video. These services improve
Being ready to support our customers access to our website and support face‑to‑face
In January 2024, we developed research contact in our branches for deaf customers.
that demonstrated:
– 58% of UK adults worried more about their Another focus area is supporting victims of
finances in the last 12 months than in the previous domestic, economic, and financial abuse.
12 months We continue to provide Safe Spaces in all our
– Almost half (44%) of UK adults think about their branches. These offer a secure and discreet place
money worries every day for victims to contact friends, family, or specialist
– 56% of UK adults admit their financial worries are support. As part of an industry‑led initiative, we have
affecting their wellbeing. banned profanities and other abusive words in the
payment reference when sending faster payments
Considering these worrying statistics, we proactively or setting up new standing orders. We took this
contacted over 2.6 million customers showing action to protect customers’ wellbeing following
signs of potential difficulty in 2024 to offer support. a rise in abusive messages and threats sent with
Our financial support is formed of over 440 Financial payments. We have also adopted the Economic
Care Specialists. Our specialists are prepared to Abuse Evidence Form which helps victims of abuse
help in a variety of ways over the phone, from a to tell us about their circumstances.
step‑by‑step run through of our online budget
planner, to simply having that first conversation We continued to develop our support for customers
to put a customer’s mind at ease. The team is at risk of financial harm through gambling.
equipped to listen and understand the individual An improved Gambling strategy helps us to identify
circumstances of each customer and provide specific more accurately, those customers heading towards
support for their situation. or experiencing harmful gambling. Once we identify Here to help | Macmillan Cancer Support
customers we believe may be at risk, we can contact
Our mobile banking app also provides tools to them to provide support. One of the support options We trained more than 2,200 frontline staff in 2024 with Macmillan Cancer Support as part of our three
help customers looking for support with financial available is to implement a block on gambling year partnership. This provided tailored financial and emotional support to people living with cancer
pressures. Within the app, My Money Manager is transactions, that once activated has a 48‑hour or family members affected by cancer. Our financial support colleagues also referred customers directly
our well‑established free money management tool. time delay for it to be removed. That means that to Macmillan for support. This included emotional, clinical, practical, and financial guidance. Watch Sal
It helps our customers understand their financial gambling transactions cannot be made for 48 hours and Mark’s story to understand the importance of supporting our customers affected by cancer.
outlook better by providing regular insights based after the customer request to remove the gambling
on their account activity. block. The decision to gamble can sometimes be
an impulsive one, so the time delay will give our
customers a little more time to reflect. We are now
seeing more customers using our gambling block to
help control their gambling spend.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
36
Social continued
Accessibility and inclusion To help prevention, we continued to raise awareness Awareness for business and corporate clients Looking ahead
In 2024, we launched OneApp, our new mobile of fraud and scams directly with our customers Scams impact businesses too, and we create We will continue to support our customers’ financial
banking app. Accessibility was a core requirement and the general public. Our campaigns aimed targeted prevention and awareness information inclusion journey. So, they can benefit from our
throughout the app’s design, development, and to show how sophisticated scammers are, and specifically for these customers. This includes financial products and services, without anyone
launch. As a result, OneApp has been globally how consumers can best protect themselves. targeted outreach via our network of relationship being left behind. Our priority focus will be on
recognised, winning The Digital Banker CX 2024 We considered the risks of seasonal and popular teams, through emails, digital content, and social financial health with an aim to defining appropriate
award for Best Digital Financial Inclusion Initiative. activities, such as sports events as well as media. Particular areas of focus in 2024 were on metrics to help measure our progress.
developments in technology, including the payment redirection scams and impersonation of
We received the award for our approach to being emergence of deepfakes, to create campaigns to bank staff. We want to help people manage their current
an inclusive and accessible bank that is present for engage consumers through both traditional and financial obligations, be financially resilient, and
significant moments for our customers. This award social media. Industry collaboration have confidence in their financial future.
noted our collaborative design process, which We’ve actively collaborated with industry colleagues
included people with accessibility needs with the Romance scams continue to be a critical issue and closely supported initiatives such as Take Five By focusing on practical strategies, we aim to build a
aim to have accessibility for all. It also recognised Our data showed that more than £3.8 million was and Stop Scams UK for wider consumer awareness. stronger, more informed society capable of making
innovative features such as the ability to change reported as stolen from customers in the last six As an example, in November we piloted and took sound financial decisions.
the font size, discreet mode to hide balances, and months through romance scams. This has affected part in the BBC Scam Safe week in conjunction with
biometric log on. customers aged from 18 to 93 years old. In 2024, the BBC and Stop Scams UK. This was a week of We’ll also continue to prioritise support for our
we launched a social media campaign to help raise focused scam information shared with consumers to vulnerable customers and develop campaigns to
Protecting our customers awareness of this devastating crime. You can see raise awareness and increase protection. educate and protect our customers against fraud
Preventing fraud and scams remained a top priority more about this campaign in our case study. and scams.
in 2024, with fraud continuing to be the most
commonly experienced crime in the UK. The social The risk of artificial intelligence scams
and economic effects are far reaching, and impacts We partnered with ‘finfluencer’ Mr Money Jar, to
on individual customers can be devastating. raise awareness about the risk of AI scams. This is
particularly relevant to AI deepfake technology, We teamed up with BBC One’s The Traitors star
In partnership with the Social Market Foundation an up‑and‑coming tactic deployed by fraudsters. Paul Gorton to expose romance fraud. As part of
(SMF) we developed the first‑of‑its‑kind ‘It’s a Deepfake is an image, sound, or video of a real the campaign, Paul Gorton performed a poem
Fraudster’s World Report’. Using data from a survey person that has been digitally manipulated through in the style of William Shakespeare to highlight
spanning 15 countries and 28,000 respondents, the artificial intelligence to convincingly misrepresent an common tactics used by romance fraudsters.
SMF revealed the global nature of the ‘fraudemic’, individual or organisation.
and the action that the UK must take to address it. The initiative illustrated that even if someone
In the UK, the SMF estimates that 10 million Britons Our research shows that over half the UK population seems to be saying all the right things, it might
fell victim to fraud between 2021 and 2023, costing (53%) have not heard of deepfakes. Only 17% were still be too good to be true.
the wider economy around £16bn. The average loss confident they could easily identify a deepfake video.
for Britons was £907, with a third (33%) reporting To help people protect themselves, we created The campaign generated over 190 news articles
suffering a negative emotional impact and 18% an deepfake videos of Mr Money Jar and Santander and reached over 23,000 accounts on social
impact to their finances. fraud lead, Chris Ainsley. These showed just how media channels.
realistic deepfakes can be.
Romance scams
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
37
Social continued
Our Communities Tomorrow’s Skills
Education and skills are critical to powering
Our community support aims to empower a growing productivity, financial resilience, and economic
number of individuals. We aspire to enhance their growth. Aligned with our purpose to help people I am incredibly grateful for the
career prospects through skills development. and businesses prosper, we want to unlock Santander Scholars Programme,
To achieve this, we have global strategy aligned people’s potential.
with Banco Santander that emphasises education, which has been a pivotal support in
employability, and entrepreneurship. To understand the risks and opportunities of my academic journey. The financial
this ambition, we developed our Tomorrow’s
assistance has not only alleviated the
Key components of this strategy include our Skills report.
continuous support for higher education institutions, burden of tuition fees, allowing me
their students, staff, and academics. We are proud
to focus on my studies without the
to offer the Santander Open Academy, a dynamic
learning platform providing access to educational stress of financial strain, but it has
It explores the challenges of productivity stagnation,
resources, alongside Santander X, our global also empowered me to continue my
and that fewer workers are taking the opportunity
entrepreneurship platform that fosters innovation
to upskill. This is due to a lack of time, cost, and education and avoid dropping out
and business growth.
flexibility to fit learning around jobs and family.
of university.
The report highlights that employees are unaware
We support financial education to primary and
of how emerging societal shifts such as artificial Santander Scholar
secondary school students through the Santander Xhevilta Rizani
intelligence and climate change could affect their
Numbers Game. This programme gives access to Santander Scholar
job roles.
essential financial literacy, equipping young learners Cardiff Metropolitan University
with the skills to manage their finances effectively.
As a result, we called on the government to use the
new National Plan for Skills to tackle these issues.
Together with the Santander Foundation and our
This includes addressing the UK’s productivity
national charity partner, we support vulnerable
dilemma and equipping British workers with the Fearless Adventures and House 337, we developed Santander Scholars Programme
people through targeted social interventions.
right leadership, digital, and net zero skills needed in a new education initiative in 2024. Delivered on The Santander Universities Scholars Programme
We aim for our community efforts to reach those
the future. In partnership with Unlocked, the Santander Open Academy, it aims to equip is a flagship initiative supporting higher‑education
who need them most.
young adults with green, digital, and professional students from various backgrounds. Since 2023,
Santander Open Santander X Santander leadership skills. The new course content is bite we’ve provided 97 students with £30,000 of
sized, video‑led, and accessible on‑the‑go, led by funding over three years. Alongside financial
Academy Numbers Game
experts in their field. support, students are provided with personal
Over £1m
and professional development. We hosted a
Our free
c.670,000 Santander Universities group of Scholars at Santander’s head office
awarded in the last 14 years in
We currently partner with 78 universities across this summer for a two‑week work experience
online learning platform, equity‑free funding to
young people given access to the UK to provide scholarships to support students programme. The students experienced various
providing courses to help people thousands of UK start‑ups and
build skills to improve their small businesses our financial education resources into and through higher education. This includes areas of the business and engaged with multiple
in 2024
career prospects opportunities for work experience or internships teams. The participants developed real‑life
with local SMEs and organisations to help students projects which were presented to our employees.
get job ready. This programme also provides The activity helped the students to develop skills
Santander Universities Santander Foundation
funding for student entrepreneurs to help them like strategic thinking, collaboration, leadership, and
take their business ideas to the next level. We also problem solving.
£15m Over £5.5m provide a range of bespoke programmes that give
students access to the tools they need to gain skills
awarded to our university partners and supported distributed to 34 funded partners since 2021 driving for the future.
upwards of 10,000 people into and through higher financial and digital empowerment across the UK
education in the UK since 2023
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
38
Social continued
Santander X On average, an estimated one million Looking ahead To strengthen our focus and help demonstrate
One of the priorities of our Social strategy is to 5‑to‑16‑year‑olds in the UK have been given access We’ll continue to develop support for our the results of our initiatives, we are developing a
support entrepreneurship. According to our research to resources from The Numbers Game programme communities. In 2025, we will have a new new social impact framework. The methodology
three quarters of Gen Z want to be their own each year since launching in 2022. We offer charity partner focused on education and skills will provide more efficiency and assurance to our
boss and are not planning to work a nine‑to‑five free, easy‑to‑access, curriculum‑friendly learning development. The ambition is to empower young community engagement programmes. The goal is
job. 77% are confident they can launch and run a materials. Together with Banco Santander we aim to people from disadvantaged and underrepresented to show how we’re helping communities to realise
successful business, and 39% back themselves launch our free resources in Argentina, Brazil, Chile, backgrounds from across the UK. In addition, their potential through education, employability,
to do so from their smartphone. To cultivate this Mexico, Poland, Portugal, Spain, and the USA. we will launch a new employee volunteering and entrepreneurship initiatives.
opportunity, Santander X, our global programme programme to enhance our impact with the support
helps entrepreneurs turn bright ideas into booming Together with Twinkl, we also launched the of our colleagues. We’ll also launch a new financial education
businesses. It also supports existing companies Financial Education Overview of Objectives tool. programme for 18‑25 year‑olds. This initiative will
to grow and transform. In 2024, we received over It helps guide primary school teachers to embed provide educational content designed to enhance
850 businesses applications for support. Gen Z financial education into the school curriculum. financial literacy and equip people with the skills
made up two‑thirds of applications. The application needed to navigate economic challenges.
processes included a series of online pitch Our partnership with Macmillan Cancer Suppport
workshops where experts helped 100 shortlisted 2024 was the third and final year of our strategic
companies with the key elements of a successful partnership with Macmillan. For three years, we
business pitch. The programme also offered group worked to make money one less worry for people
and one‑to‑one coaching. affected by cancer. Our employees went above
and beyond to raise funds, create awareness, and
In November, 12 finalists attended the national final provide support to those who are affected. In 2024,
event at Santander UK headquarters. They pitched Santander UK employees and customers raised over
to a panel of judges, including Gary Neville, Dame £600,000 for Macmillan. This takes the total raised
Jessica Ennis‑Hill, Dragon’s Den star, Sam Jones, since 2022 to more than £1.8m. Besides fundraising,
former Head of Social at Gymshark, Elfried Samba, over 450 employees volunteered their time with
and Santander’s CEO, Mike Regnier. The panel the charity.
selected six winners to receive equity‑free cash
prizes between £2,500 and £25,000. The six Santander Foundation
winners also progress to the Santander X global In 2024, our Foundation distributed over £1.3m
awards, Santander’s international entrepreneurship to 34 grantees as part of its Financial and Digital
competition in 2025. Empowerment Fund. The donations helped over
13,600 people to improve their financial and digital
Santander’s The Numbers Game literacy capabilities. Highlights include:
In 2024, we launched our Financial Education – 80% of funds went to groups most likely to
Framework with our partners Twinkl and the Social experience digital and financial exclusion.
Market Foundation (SMF). Research from SMF This includes migrants, refugees, asylum seekers,
showed that only 1% of primary school teachers and multiple disability/community groups Supporting financial
think their students have adequate financial skills. geographically dispersed across the UK and digital inclusion
We launched the Framework at Parliament along – 80% reported increased confidence in managing We aim to help charities working
with a call to make financial education compulsory money (financial education). In partnership with Media Trust, the with people who suffer the most
at a primary level. We highlighted the barriers to Foundation helped its grantees to improve their
financial education related to entry at secondary communication capabilities. They created 11 from financial and digital exclusion.
level. We also attended the Education Select videos to help the charities promote their impact. We want to make things better
Committee and House of Lords’ hearings.
for them”
Judith Moran
Santander Foundation Chair
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
39
Social continued
Our People Raise the bar
We simplified how we manage employee
Our people deal sets out what it means to work performance. It’s now easier for our people to
for Santander UK. This includes how we support measure their success and deliver against their
our employees and what we expect in return. objectives. New leadership expectations help
It continues to be the compass for how we deliver our leaders understand how they can support
value for our people. The people deal has six pillars: our shared goals and deliver value for our
customers. We also updated our performance
Unleash your potential rating descriptions to provide clear expectations for
Investing in the skills and development of our employee roles and seniority.
people is critical. This year, we have strengthened
talent management as part of our People strategy. Our revised Performance Management policy
In March, we launched a new career development sets out our performance expectations. It helps to
hub. The hub is designed to help our people resolve underperformance and defines our approach
understand the growth opportunities available to support, coaching, and regular reviews.
across Banco Santander and to build development
plans. We measure if employees feel they can There when it matters
develop new skills and knowledge on the job Support for our people is essential to help them
at Santander UK. At the end of 2024, employee thrive. With our four pillars of wellbeing (mental,
responses scored 7.9 (out of 10) which is in the top physical, social, and financial) we help our
25% of the external financial services benchmark. people to focus on positive wellbeing every day.
We encourage our people to take proactive steps
In 2025, we’ll enhance our approach with our to manage their wellbeing have the right support
new global learning platform which includes when it’s needed.
mandatory training. We’ll also focus on developing a
skills‑based strategic workforce plan (SWP) that will Our approach to wellbeing has been recognised
align our workforce with the long‑term needs of our with various awards. The work we do on menopause
business. The SWP will identify the right shape and is recognised through our Henpicked accreditation.
sized workforce to support sustainable growth and Our support for financial wellbeing was recognised
deliver on our strategic ambitions. with the best financial initiative at the 2024 Inside
Out Awards.
We have various programmes to support our talent.
21 high potential talent employees from the UK Valued for your impact
participated in our Group Young Leaders Programme The CEO Awards is our new recognition programme
along with 183 colleagues from across the globe. designed to celebrate passion‑driven people and
For nine months, the participants contribute to exceptional work. Our people nominate teammates
Banco Santander’s strategy, increase their visibility, for recognition across nine categories that reflect our
and grow as a leader through new experiences. strategic ambitions and TEAMS behaviours. The CEO
Awards recognises high performance, employees
living our TEAMS behaviours, and delivering positive
outcomes for customers and communities.
This event is all about celebrating our people and their achievements.
We received more than 1,500 nominations in 2024. As proved in the number of nominations received and the work our
After an inspiring and challenging selection process, people do on a daily basis, they’ve all gone above and beyond to support
our Executive Committee selected 100 people to
our people and make our customers’ better happen.”
attend the awards ceremony.
Mike Regnier, Chief Executive Officer
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
40
Social continued
Shape the future and dignity. We have a zero‑tolerance approach to Working in partnership with Looking ahead to 2025
We aim to be a bank that’s digital first with a human discrimination, bullying, harassment, or victimisation recognised trade unions Our people deal continues to be the way that we
touch when supporting our customers. The same of any kind. Examples of zero‑tolerance behaviours We continue to work in partnership with our create an environment to deliver good outcomes
applies to how we support our people. We improved are set out in The Place to be Yourself policy. two recognised trade unions: Advance and the for our customers. Our next focus is to embed and
our support approach with a new chatbot that Communication Workers Union. We maintained evolve this, meeting the ongoing changing needs
uses generative AI. The chatbot is connected to our Embedding our TEAMS behaviours stable industrial relations during the year. and expectations of our people.
internal knowledge base (AskHR) which hosts our We launched our TEAMS behaviours in 2022. Consultation with union representatives on changes
people policies. It’s accessible to all employees We continue to embed them into our daily habits associated with our business transformation We will develop a skills‑based strategic workforce
through Microsoft Teams and provides 24/7 access and ways of working. Think Customer is one of the have continued. plan (SWP) that will align our workforce with the
for HR‑related queries. behaviours and aligns closely with the Financial long‑term needs of our business. The SWP will
Conduct Authority (FCA) Consumer Duty regulation. identify the right shape and sized workforce to
The place to be yourself We aim to putting good customer outcomes at the support sustainable growth and deliver our strategy.
We aim to be a truly inclusive organisation that heart of everything we do.
prioritises an inclusive culture and reflects the We’ll also launch a new training programme for all
customers and communities we serve. We want to Supporting this, we launched the Branch Connect People leaders. This will support new and existing
create an environment where everyone can thrive, programme. This partners 250 senior leaders with managers with the skills needed to grow and
no matter their background. Our global approach their local branch. The programme allows our develop high‑performing teams.
to inclusion is based on the principles of access, leaders to gain deeper insight into the needs of our
fairness and meritocracy. customers and branch teams through regular visits.
Working with their branch, our leaders are helping
We know that representation is important. to solve challenges affecting our customers and
It allows us to have different perspectives in our teams. These learnings can also be applied to how
conversations and decision making, helping us to they develop customer centric focus in their own
consistently meet our customers’ needs. roles and wider teams.
In 2024, we achieved our ethnicity senior To support our culture transformation, we launched
representation ambitions a year early. On the back a new work programme on our risk culture.
of this, we defined new ambitions to increase the Aligned to Banco Santander’s Risk Pro language
representation of people from Ethnic Minority (previously I AM Risk), the programme sets out
backgrounds at senior levels. how we need to develop our risk mindset and
behaviours. A new mandatory training suite and a Dinesh Subhra and
W
refl
e
e
u
c
p
t
d
th
at
e
e
n
d
e
o
w
u r
W
T
o
h
r
e
k
P
e
l
r
a
P
c
r
e
o
t
t
o
e c
b
t
e
io
Y
n
o
A
u
c
r
t
s e
d
l
u
f
t
p
y
o
o
li
n
c y
s e
to
xu al
d
ha
e
v
ci
e
s i
b
o
e
n
e
‑
n
ch
d
e
e
c
v
k
e
a
lo
li
p
g
e
n
d
e
.
d
T
t
h
o
e
o
s
u
e
r
g
T
u
E
id
A
e
M
c
S
o l
b
le
e
a
h
g
a
u
vi
e
o
s
u
t
r
o
s Desislava Ilieva
harassment. We believe that everyone in our team make informed decisions in the best interests of our
It was truly special to represent the
has the right to be treated with respect customers, communities, shareholders, and people.
Our CEO Awards winners business banking mobile team at
the CEO Awards and it’s just the
Dinesh and Desislava won the Move Together
start for us. Our plan is to continue
category. They led the development of
our new business banking mobile app. delivering lots more features in the
Despite encountering several obstacles, they
app this year to help make our
built a high‑performing and resilient culture
across the team. Since launch, mobile usage customers’ better happen.”
34.1% 1 14.7% 1 has doubled, customer feedback has improved,
and net promoter scores (NPS) have increased, Dinesh Subhra and Desislava Ilieva
senior female representation (HoldCo) senior Minority Ethnic representation (HoldCo) strengthening our position within the business
New ambition: 40% by 2030 Ambition: 16% by 2026 banking industry.
1 S antander UK’s workforce is in the UK and these goals are focused in the UK, and in compliance with relevant UK law.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
These goals support business performance and all employment decisions are based on merit.
41
Social continued
Social
continued
Category Notes Units 2024 2023 2022
Group clients by region, geography The total number of Group clients has remained consistent across all regions, geographies, and within our Digital million 22.5 22.5 22.4
and Digital Consumer Bank Consumer Bank.
Dialogue by channel: Digital bank The total number of digital bank clients has remained consistent with previous reporting periods. units 7.2m 7.2m 7.0m
– clients
Dialogue by channel: Number of Branch numbers are validated against monthly reporting within the CFO division and there are no specific exclusions. # 444 444 449
branches There were no branch closures in 2024. We remain focused to promoting the use of our digital platforms but are
acutely aware of the human touch that branches bring to our service. Our aim is to be a digital bank with a human
touch and branches will continue to have a place in this strategy.
Ranking of NPS Bank’s positioning: Customer service is integral to our strategy and remains a key area of focus. Our retail NPS remained consistent in # 4 – –
Individual Segment 2024, whilst we retained our 1st place in NPS for business banking.
Community investment programmes: We’re on track to meet our 2027 ambition of £8m per year. Due to adjustments made to align data points with Banco £m 7.8 – –
Investment in education, employability Santander, in some cases data is not equally comparable to previous years and therefore, for these data points,
and entrepreneurship programmes in comparatives are not provided.
the year
People helped through Santander # 5,790 – –
Universities programmes:
employability programmes
People helped through Santander # 459 – –
As mentioned in our Executive Summary we have an opportunity to contribute to education, employability, and
Universities programmes: education
entrepreneurship, as well as community development through support programmes. Due to adjustments made
programmes
to align data points with Banco Santander, in some cases data is not equally comparable to previous years and
therefore, for these data points, comparatives are not provided.
People helped through Santander # 94 – –
Universities programmes:
entrepreneurship programmes
People helped through Santander # 6,343 – –
Universities programmes: total
Number of universities with The number of entities that have agreements with Santander Universities remains reasonably consistent with # 78 84 75
agreements as part of Santander previous years.
Universities
Key: 2024 data has been subject to Independent Limited Assurance by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, please refer to the Assurance opinion in this supplement. See our 2020, 2021, 2022 and 2023 supplements for the prior
AS
performance period and assurance by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. Please refer to the Methodologies and data criteria section of this supplement for further details of how we have prepared our 2024 data.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
42
Social continued
Social
continued
Category Notes Units 2024 2023 2022
Community investment programmes: Due to adjustments made to align data points with Banco Santander, in some cases data is not equally comparable £m 15 – –
Investment in education, employability, to previous years and therefore, for these data points, comparatives are not provided. In this case, the data stated in
and entrepreneurship programmes, previous years’ reports does not directly align with our new metric scope. See our ‘methodologies’ section for more
cumulative 2023‑2026 detail.
Community support This a combined figure made up of all contributions paid in 2024 relating to: £m AS 10.5 11.7 10.1
– Santander Foundation – matched donations and grants
– Santander Universities – In 2024, the methodology allowed a maximum of 5% of the budget to be allocated to
marketing activities
– Santander Breakthrough
– Donations, sponsorships and, initiatives developed by the Sustainability & Responsible Banking team.
This metric is aligned to the Banco Santander Community Support Methodology. There was an 10% reduction year‑
on‑year in the total figure. The variance is due to the discontinuation of programmes not aligned with the new Social
strategy developed in 2024.
People helped through local initiatives # 401,696 – –
supporting the community
Children and young people given # 672,415 – –
access to financial education resources Due to adjustments made to align data points with Banco Santander, in some cases data is not equally comparable to
previous years and therefore, for these data points, comparatives are not provided. In the case of these metrics, this
New people financially included is the first year we are disclosing this data, and therefore there is no prior year data available to disclose. # 191,772 – –
since 2023
New people financially included since # 86,422 – –
the beginning of the year
Employee engagement score Towards the end of the year, our employee engagement index reduced by 0.3. The score remains above the financial # 7.9 8.2 7.8
services benchmark (7.8). This result reflects the transformation across Santander UK plc, including our new approach
to hybrid working. We continue our transformation to simplify the bank, digitise processes, build smarter solutions, and
strengthen our foundations whilst reducing costs, extending internal capabilities and ensuring a resilient operating model.
Headcount Santander UK Group Holdings plc (HoldCo) employees belong to the following companies: Santander UK plc, Santander # 19,409 19,988 18,749
(Santander UK Group Holdings plc) UK plc (SGCB), Cater Allen Ltd, Santander Consumer (UK), SPK Santander International, Santander Financial Services.
Our Holdco employees also have decreased 2% year on year.
Headcount Our total number of employees decreased by 8% year‑on‑year. This result reflects the transformation across Santander # 18,329 19,802 18,572
(Santander UK plc) UK. We continue our transformation to simplify the bank, digitise processes, build smarter solutions, and strengthen our
foundations whilst reducing costs, extending internal capabilities and ensuring a resilient operating model.
Key: 2024 data has been subject to Independent Limited Assurance by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, please refer to the Assurance opinion in this supplement. See our 2020, 2021, 2022 and 2023 supplements for the prior
AS
performance period and assurance by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. Please refer to the Methodologies and data criteria section of this supplement for further details of how we have prepared our 2024 data.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
43
Social continued
Social
continued
Category Notes Units 2024 2023 2022
Headcount with permanent # 17,407 – –
contract: Total
(Santander UK plc)
Headcount with temporary # 922 – –
contract: Total
(Santander UK plc)
Headcount with full time Headcount is different to FTE. Headcount refers to the total number of people employed at the organisation over the # 14,865 – –
contract: Total given period. We have previously only reported FTE, which is why our headcount figures do not have comparable
(Santander UK plc) prior year data stated.
Headcount with part‑time # 3,464 – –
contract: Total
(Santander UK plc)
Headcount with non‑guaranteed # 0 – –
hours contract: Total
(Santander UK plc)
Employees FTE This figure is based on full‑time equivalent employees, which is different from overall headcount. Our total number of full # 18,156 19,992 18,750
(Santander UK Group Holdings plc)1 time equivalent employees decreased by 9% year‑on‑year. This result reflects the transformation across the organisation.
Employees by sex FTE (Male) Our total number of employees by gender (Male) decreased by 9% year‑on‑year. This result reflects the transformation # AS 8,507 9, 328 8,562
(Santander UK Group Holdings plc)1 across Santander UK. We continue our transformation to simplify the bank, digitise processes, build smarter solutions, and
strengthen our foundations whilst reducing costs, extending internal capabilities and ensuring a resilient operating model.
Employees by sex FTE (Female) Our total number of employees by gender (Female) decreased by 9% year‑on‑year. This result reflects # AS 9,648 10,660 10,187
(Santander UK Group Holdings plc)1 the transformation across Santander UK. We continue our transformation to simplify the bank, digitise processes,
build smarter solutions, and strengthen our foundations whilst reducing costs, extending internal capabilities and
ensuring a resilient operating model.
Employees by gender (Male)1 # 8,113 – –
(Santander UK plc)
Employees by gender (Female)1 In previous years’ reports we have stated ‘female’ or ‘male’ employees. These have referred to sex, as disclosed # 10,216 – –
(Santander UK plc) above. This year, we have also disclosed gender as separate metrics. As this is the first year of doing so, there are
Employees by gender (Not declared)1 no comparable data points to disclose. See our ‘methodologies’ section to understand the difference between our # 0 – –
gender and sex metrics.
(Santander UK plc)
Employees by gender (Others)1 # 0 – –
(Santander UK plc)
Key: 2024 data has been subject to Independent Limited Assurance by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, please refer to the Assurance opinion in this supplement. See our 2020, 2021, 2022 and 2023 supplements for the prior
AS
performance period and assurance by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. Please refer to the Methodologies and data criteria section of this supplement for further details of how we have prepared our 2024 data.
1 A lignment with Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Consultation Paper CP23/20 that firms in scope must develop an evidence‑based D&I
strategy with supporting metrics. Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
44
Social continued
Social
continued
Category Notes Units 2024 2023 2022
Headcount (Executives) # 177 – –
(Santander UK plc)
Headcount (Managers) This is the first time we have disclosed these metrics, in line with Banco Santander. Therefore no prior year data is # 1,839 – –
(Santander UK plc) available for comparison.
Headcount (Other employees) # 16,313 – –
(Santander UK plc)
Employee turnover Employee turnover has reduced 4% year‑on‑year. The decrease in turnover is generally a market factor that has % AS 9.41 9.8 11.4
(Santander UK Group Holdings plc) been witnessed across the market.
Headcount, by age bracket (aged <30)1 # 3,571 – –
(Santander UK plc)
This is the first time we have disclosed these metrics, in line with Banco Santander. Therefore no prior year data is
available for comparison.
Headcount, by age bracket # 11,037 – –
(aged 30‑50)1 (Santander UK plc)
Headcount, by age bracket (aged >50)1 Our total number headcount, by age bracket (aged >50) decreased by 5% year‑on‑year. This result reflects # 3,721 3,913 3,359
the transformation across the organisation. We continue our transformation to simplify the bank, digitise
processes, build smarter solutions, and strengthen our foundations whilst reducing costs, extending internal
capabilities and ensuring a resilient operating model.
FTE of Ethnic Minority employees1 We only include data on colleagues who have decided to disclose their ethnicity. This figure does not include those # AS 4,140 4,294 3,359
(Santander UK Group Holdings) who have decided ‘not to disclose’ or ‘unspecified’. This is due to this data type being classified as ‘sensitive’ under
GDPR and therefore cannot be captured as a mandatory item of data during onboarding. It requires proactive
FTE of ethnic minority employees1 engagement from colleagues to release this information. Although FTE has reduced in 2024, this is in line with % 23
(Santander UK plc) bank‑wide FTE reductions and the percentage of ethnic minority employees has increased.
Women out of management positions % 36 – –
(Executives, Middle Management)1
(Santander UK plc)
Employees with performance reviews # 18,030 – –
(Santander UK plc) This is the first time we are disclosing these metrics and therefore no prior years’ data is available for comparison.
Although some metrics have similarities with those previously disclosed, they are not like for like, and therefore
Women in STEM‑related positions comparatives have not been provided to avoid confusion. % 26 – –
(of total STEM positions)1
(Santander UK plc)
New hires # 1,531 – –
(Santander UK plc)
Key: 2024 data has been subject to Independent Limited Assurance by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, please refer to the Assurance opinion in this supplement. See our 2020, 2021, 2022 and 2023 supplements for the prior
AS
performance period and assurance by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. Please refer to the Methodologies and data criteria section of this supplement for further details of how we have prepared our 2024 data.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
45
Social continued
Social
continued
Category Notes Units 2024 2023 2022
Number of days lost due to # 9,193 – –
work‑related health (acciddents
and ill health) (Santander UK plc)
Cases of recordable work‑related In order to align our data points with Banco Santander, this is the first year we are disclosing these metrics. # 225 – –
ill health (occupational illnesses) Therefore no data from prior years is available to disclose.
(Santander UK plc)
Days not worked due to work # 370 – –
accidents (Santander UK plc)
Number of recordable work‑related In previous years we have reported 3 metrics separately, which combine to create this year’s new metric. # 55 87 71
accidents (Santander UK plc) In previous years these were:
– Minor accidents
– Accidents resulting in over seven days absence
– Major accidents
Total employees with disability1 This is the first time we are disclosing these metrics and therefore no prior years’ data is available for comparison. # 721 – –
(Santander UK plc)
Total days of learning completed In 2024, the method used to calculate this metric has changed to align the calculation with Banco Santander’s approach. # AS 37,147 53,9841 55,4111
(Santander UK Group Holdings plc) This includes calculating based on the estimated hours a training module is expected to take to complete; and amending
the assumptions relating to face to face versus virtual training hours to bring these in line to 7 hours each. This brings us
in line with our “Think Global” strategic requirements and enables us to validate centrally produced metrics on the same
basis as the Group. We have identified differences between our previous methodology and Banco Santander’s but have
agreed to proceed as per this new approach. Prior year data has been updated in line with this new methodology. The
reduction in training days compared to the updated 2022 and 2023 data can be attributed to the reduction in HoldCo
headcount, and therefore the associated training modules these employees would have completed.
Total of hours of learning completed # 193,629 – –
(Santander UK plc)
Total attendance to learning sessions # 672,874 – –
In order to align our data points with Banco Santander, this is the first year we are disclosing these metrics.
(Santander UK plc)
Therefore no data from prior years is available to disclose. In some cases, similar data has been previously
disclosed, but for a different entity, for example HoldCo in stead of Santander UK. In these cases, data is not equally
Total expenditures in learning £m 9.7 – –
comparable and therefore has not been provided.
(Santander UK plc)
Terminated employees # 3,349 – –
(Santander UK plc)
Key: 2024 data has been subject to Independent Limited Assurance by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, please refer to the Assurance opinion in this supplement. See our 2020, 2021, 2022 and 2023 supplements for the prior
AS
performance period and assurance by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. Please refer to the Methodologies and data criteria section of this supplement for further details of how we have prepared our 2024 data.
1 T his figure has been amended from 2023 ‑ 120,271 to 53,984 and 2022 ‑ 100,411 to 55,411 due to our updated methodology driven by our
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
“Think Global” strategic alignment with Banco Santander. Please see the basis of reporting for updated methodology details.
e
nc In this section
na
er
ov
G
Find out how we are
aligning to the UN SDG’s
47
Governance
Our approach to
Governance
Targets and progress Highlights Santander UK’s Governance strategy
At 31 December 2024, 31% of the Board were Corporate
female. The Board aims to maintain at least
Clear and robust governance with well‑defined accountability which promotes
two members who are female and aims to governance the success of Santander UK, its customers, and other stakeholders
have 40% female representation by 2025.
We uphold the highest standards of Shareholder Effective Responsible practices
Our Board Diversity and Inclusion Policy governance, including applying the UK engagement Board of Directors and stakeholders’ interests
ambitions for 2028 are to achieve: Corporate Governance Code.
– A gender balance of at least 40% male
and female;
10%
– At least one senior Board position (Chair,
CEO, CFO, or Senior Independent Director) to
be female of Santander UK’s Variable Pay Scorecard is
– At least one member from a non‑White based on ESG metrics.
Promote the success of the
Minority Ethnic background. Santander UK for the benefit of our Value‑led, risk‑attuned,
A balanced, qualified and
New Governance shareholder in line with diverse Board to ensure effective efficient decision
S172 Companies Act 2006, including making following robust
optimal decision making
and having due regard to the and constructive challenge
strategy interests of stakeholders
approved by Board and Executive Proactive engagement and Separation of key roles and robust Simple and effective legal
alignment with Banco Santander structure and management
Committee accountabilities succession planning including for
Group, balancing the requirement governance facilitates agile
subsidiary boards
for independent decision making decision making aligned to SMCR(1)
The third pillar of our Sustainability strategy A strong governance culture and structure has Strong and embedded practices
Leverage Group’s scale and Strong corporate values
focuses on clear and robust governance with always been a focus for our business. Yet, there in board corporate governance
capabilities for to reinforce culture and deliver
well‑defined accountability. The aim is to promote are areas we can strengthen, simplify, or clarify UK stakeholder interests including strong information flows our Strategic Blueprint
and targeted board training
the success of our business, customers, and to support more efficient decision making.
stakeholders. In July 2024, the Board approved our Our Governance strategy will also help us to
first formal Governance Strategy. It follows the capitalise on opportunities more effectively.
three strategic pillars of Banco Santander’s global For more on corporate governance see Santander
governance model and includes priorities specific to UK Group Holdings Annual Report.
Santander UK.
1 Senior Managers and Certification Regime (SMCR)
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
48
Governance continued
Our governance The Board Nomination and Governance Committee
also oversees succession planning for the Board
Shareholder engagement and senior management positions. The Committee
We have continued to work on enhancing our monitors progress against the ambitions set out in
relationship and understanding of our parent our Board Diversity and Inclusion Policy. For more
company, Banco Santander. In 2024, this included: information, please refer to the Board Nomination &
– Board and management teams engaging Governance Committee report in the Santander UK
informally with Banco Santander’s counterparts Group Holdings Annual Report.
outside of regular Board cycles. This includes
Banco Santander Board Chairs being invited to We follow the UK Corporate Goverance Code,
UK Board sessions at least once a year. The Chief as far as it is applicable to us, and evaluate the
Governance Officer has also invited key Banco effectiveness of our Board and its Committees
Santander individuals to attend UK Board and/or annually. In 2024, the evaluation was externally
Executive Management meetings, as appropriate facilitated and confirmed that the Board operates
– Embedding Banco Santander governance effectively. For more information please refer to the
documents and global business operating Corporate Governance section of the Santander UK
models within Santander UK. This aims to ensure Group Holdings plc 2024 Annual Report.
Banco Santander governance principles are
applied consistently while also meeting local Responsible practices and stakeholder interests
regulatory requirements Strong governance is about making sure that the
– Using Banco Santander systems to automate right decisions are taken by the right people, in the
processes where possible, and to provide better right way, at the right time, and on the basis of the
outcomes for our customers. right information. In 2024, we have:
– Focussed on reviewing and simplifying
Looking ahead, we’re focused on delivering value management‑level governance
for Banco Santander by using our unique ownership – Reviewed and simplified delegated authority
structure to leverage their knowledge, ideas, capital, frameworks. These support effective and efficient
resources, and technology. decision‑making across Santander UK. We’ve
provided guidance on the parameters to consider
Effective Board of Directors when sub‑delegating authority within the
In 2024, we continued our focus on Board Santander UK Corporate Governance Framework
succession planning. Our aim is to maintain the – Optimised the Santander UK entity structure to
right balance of skills, experience, and inclusive reduce, simplify, and gain cost savings. We expect Our Governance strategy
culture on the Board. We also aim to adopt a more to continue this workstream in 2025.
distributed approach to succession. This avoids
In 2024, we approved our first Santander UK Governance strategy. Our ambition is clear and robust
multiple Board Directors retiring around the
governance with well‑defined accountability which promotes the success of Santander, its customers
same time. The Board Nomination and Governance
and other stakeholders.
Committee leads the process for Board and Board
Committee appointments.
We want the right people making the right decisions in an efficient and effective way.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
49
Governance continued
Corporate culture – Violations of securities market laws In 2024, we updated our Code of Supplier Sustainability governance
Santander’s corporate culture, The Santander Way, – Conduct that may involve an act that infringes the Responsibility which sets the expectations of Sustainability and managing sustainability‑related
is the bedrock of our success. Our values (Simple, law or any other regulation and, in particular, a how we do business with suppliers. It ensures impacts is strategically important to our business.
Personal, and Fair), our corporate behaviours serious or very serious criminal or administrative our supply chain partners operate in an ethical, Our sustainability governance structure provides
(T.E.A.M.S), our leadership principles, and our robust offence or applicable UK law responsible, and sustainable way. This includes clear oversight and ownership of our Sustainability
risk culture (Risk Pro) guide us every day. – Acts or conduct that go against the Banco alignment with our stance on topics like financial strategy and how we manage sustainability‑related
Santander’s corporate behaviours. crime, consumer duty, net zero, human rights, and risks. Our governance model spans all levels of our
Our Code of Conduct sets out the behaviours inclusive culture. The Code is an important part business. From Board and Executive level, through
and values that all Santander UK employees Santander UK handle all reports received in a of our supplier onboarding process and annual our Risk and Sustainability functions, to our business
must abide by. This includes when engaging with diligent, independent, and objective manner for the supplier recertification process. We divide supplier divisions, including Retail and Business Banking
our people, customers, suppliers, and broader benefit of the parties involved. This is a protective commitments into things we expect and things we (RBB), Consumer Finance, and Corporate and
society. It promotes a solid risk management measure for the people who communicate in good encourage across environmental sustainability, Commercial Banking (CCB).
and compliance culture and helps mitigate the faith through the channel, and anyone else who is human rights, social responsibility, and responsible
risks we are exposed to. The Code promotes part of the related internal investigations. business practices. A three lines of defence risk model is built into
acting responsibly, an inclusive culture, and the way we run our business. This includes how
non‑discrimination, zero tolerance for sexual Management of relationships with suppliers, Anti‑bribery and corruption (ABC) we manage sustainability risk. For more on the
or work‑related harassment, respect for including payment practices In 2024, we continued to implement our ABC Board’s role in assessing and managing risks and
others, work‑life balance, human rights, and Our outsourcing and third‑party management programme. The programme is also subject to opportunities, see the Governance section of the
environmental protection. model and third‑party certification policy provide continual review and update in line with the rest Santander UK Group Holdings Annual Report. Below,
a methodology to make sure that our suppliers of our policies. We conduct a risk and control we set out how Santander UK’s Board, Committees,
Protection of whistleblowers meet the our minimum requirements. They help to self‑assessment (RCSA) to identify residual risk Forums, meetings, and working groups oversaw
We have an anonymous and confidential channel to avoid risks that stem from substandard operational within the organisation. It involves assessing the sustainability‑related risks and opportunities
report unethical conduct. It protects whistleblowers resilience, solvency, reputational control, and inherent risks of our business activities in terms of in 2024. In addition, we also outline our overall
by expressly prohibiting reprisals or any negative regulatory compliance. Santander UK works with a financial crime. We also consider risks of money operating model for sustainability within Santander
consequence against them. Whistleblowers can broad spectrum of suppliers to deliver services that laundering, terrorism financing, and bribery UK. This includes the role of senior management,
report their suspicions about professional conduct make our customers’ better happen. and corruption. remuneration, and training and skills development.
related to:
– Unlawful acts in the workplace All suppliers are expected to operate in accordance Our Tax strategy is also consistent with our Business
– Irregularities or breaches of the Code of Conduct with relevant legislation and regulations. Most of strategy and aligns with our purpose of helping
and its implementing regulation that may be our suppliers are UK‑based and operate under people and businesses prosper. It’s also aligned our
subject to disciplinary action local legislation and regulation. We build effective aim to be the best open financial services platform
– Improper accounting or auditing practices, relationships with our suppliers to minimise risk. by acting responsibly and earning the lasting
internal control, or influence on external auditors loyalty of our people, customers, shareholders,
– Violations of anti‑money laundering and and communities.
terrorism financing laws or of our internal
regulations to comply with those laws, as well as
acts of corruption and bribery
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
50
Governance continued
Board and Board Committees ESG Leadership Forum
The Board is ultimately responsible for reviewing The ESG Leadership Forum plays a key role in Sustainability Governance
and approving our individual sustainability strategies ensuring our Sustainability strategy with our
(e.g. Climate, Social and Governance). The Board business strategy. It monitors progress against
Responsible Banking Committee (RBC) provides ESG ambitions, manages sustainability disclosure
Board‑level oversight of sustainability performance. risks, and oversees effective communication with
Board Committee
It reviews and agrees Santander UK’s approach to our stakeholders.
global and national sustainability issues. It also
monitors progress towards our goals and ensures In 2024, the Forum met 12 times covering
alignment with sector ambitions. sustainability matters in all meetings.
Topics included emissions reporting, our internal Board Audit Board Responsible Board Risk
The RBC met eight times during 2024 and climate transition plan, our updated Climate Committee Banking Committee Committee
sustainability‑related papers were presented on all strategy, climate change risk, green finance
occasions. Key sustainability topics discussed were customer propositions, our proposed Social strategy,
the internal climate transition plan, progress against and the ESG data programme.
sustainability ambitions, new regulation, and future
Executive ESCC Risk Forum
sustainability risks and opportunities. Executive accountabilities
Committee
Our CEO holds executive responsibility for
Throughout 2024, the Board Audit Committee overseeing the development and delivery of
maintained oversight of sustainability‑related Santander UK’s Sustainability strategy, including ESG Data Programme
internal controls and disclosure. It also alignment with our business strategy:
ensured alignment with established processes – The Director of Communications, Marketing
ESG Leadership
and standards. and Responsible Banking who is responsible
Forum Green Finance Taskforce
for the overall development and delivery of our
The Board Risk Committee, in coordination with Sustainability strategy
RBC, is responsible for the oversight of identifying – Each of the pillars of our Sustainability strategy
environmental and social risks. Together with is owned and delivered by Executive Committee
the RBC it assesses Santander UK’s exposure to members accountable for these areas
ESG Finance Review Climate Transition Plan ESG Panel Social Strategy
climate‑related risks and other sustainability – Individual business heads (Corporate and Governance Meeting Governance Meeting Governance Meeting Governance Meeting
issues. The Board Risk Committee met eight times Commercial Banking, Retail and Business
and discussed sustainability‑related matters on Banking, and Consumer Finance) are responsible
three occasions. for aligning their portfolios and exploring green
finance opportunities
Senior Management Committee – The Chief Operating Officer is responsible
The Senior Management Committee (SMC) provides for reducing Santander UK’s own
management‑level oversight of ESG performance. operational footprint
The SMC discussed sustainability‑related matters – The Chief Risk Officer (CRO) is responsible
on four occasions. This included ESG remuneration, for integrating climate risks and adhering to
our internal climate transition plan, and our new regulatory and supervisory expectations.
Social strategy.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
Governance continued
People Chief Finance
and Culture Officer/Strategy
Technology Comms
and data and marketing
Procurement Governance and third party
and controls risk management
Property Legal
Consumer
CCB RBB
Finance
Risk and Compliance
Internal Audit
1 eniL
2
eniL
3
eniL
51
ESG governance meetings Risk Control Units report their climate‑related risks
There are several ESG governance meetings that across key risk types covering Credit, Liquidity, ESG operating model
support the work of the ESG Leadership Forum: Pension, Capital, Operational, Reputational, Conduct Sustainability Line 1
– ESG Finance Review Governance Meeting: assists and Regulatory, and Legal risks. Internal Audit Business Units and Business Support Units
the Director of Financial Reporting’s review also plays a key role in the governance of our are responsible for identifying, assessing, and
of all financial and non‑financial information Sustainability strategy. It provides assurance across managing sustainability‑related risks and
published in internal ESG reporting and external a wide range of sustainability‑related topics. opportunities within their area. This process
ESG disclosures is overseen by the Sustainability team.
– ESG Panel Governance Meeting (ESGPGM): Internal Audit continue to support the agenda by The Sustainability team is responsible for
reviews, certifies, approves, and monitors building ESG requirements and bespoke ESG audits ensuring that the organisation is properly
the eligibility and consistency components into their forward looking plans. resourced and receives relevant climate change
of all proposed green, social, or sustainable training in collaboration with the CRO. It also
(ESG‑labelled) transactions, providers, products, Remuneration manages the sustainability reporting framework,
and services Our annual UK Variable Pay Scorecard includes a including metrics with support from the CFO – Transition plan Governance Meeting: responsible weighting related to ESG performance. In 2024, on external reporting, disclosures, audits,
for co‑ordinating Governance me of the 10% of all employees’ variable pay was linked to and assurance.
internal climate transition plan. This includes ESG performance with all metrics linked to the
providing support and advice to business units delivery of our Sustainability strategy. Furthermore, Line 2
and functions on alignment with the transition an additional 5% of the final bonus pool outcome Our Risk and Compliance team is responsible for
plan. It is also responsible for overseeing the was based on a qualitative assessment by Banco overseeing ESG risks. This includes:
internal climate transition planning, ensuring Santander against globally defined ESG ambitions. – Providing oversight of Santander UK’s
alignment with Banco Santander and maintaining Good progress was made against both assessments Sustainability strategy and ensuring
compliance with relevant legislation at UK and in 2024 and further stretching goals will be set Business Units compliance with Senior Management Function
Group levels. for 2025. (SMF) accountabilities
– Green Finance Taskforce: responsible for – Developing a centralised sustainability
developing and delivering the retail and Training and skills development risk report along with associated
corporate commercial green finance strategies In April 2024, we provided training to members management information
for Santander UK, also reporting up into the One of the Board, RBC, and SMC covering emerging – Designing business‑configurable climate
Europe Green Finance team. regulations, sustainable reporting, nature and scenarios that inform stress testing and other
biodiversity, and the circular economy. key processes
Second and third line organisational structure – Updating processes and procedures in
Environmental, social, and climate change risk is Specialist training continues for employees response to sustainability risks and ensuring
considered a transversal risk for Santander UK. directly involved in our sustainability agenda. accountability for risk control
This means these climate‑related risks can be This includes external certifications such as – Monitoring key indicators relating to
present in other risk categories, such as reputational, Institute of Environmental Management and sustainability risks and opportunities
financial, and legal risk. Our Business Units, Business Assessment, Cambridge Institute for Sustainability – Conducting climate stress testing for retail
Support Units, and Risk Control Units consider the Leadership, and Chartered Banker Qualifications in and corporate portfolios, and reporting on
impact of these risks on our existing business risks Green Finance. scenario outcomes.
over the medium and long term. Business units are
responsible for all relevant risks in their business In 2025, we’ll launch a new mandatory sustainability Line 3
area. Business Support Units give specialist support training for all employees. The course will cover our – Our Internal Audit team provides independent
to Business Units in risk management. Climate strategy, Social strategy and Governance assurance on the efficiency and effectiveness
straregy, the risks of greenwashing, and the of processes and systems. This includes
importance of reporting and disclosures. compliance with regulation and supervisory
requirements, and the reliability and
integrity of financial and operational
sustainability reporting.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
52
Governance continued
Governance
continued
Category Notes Units 2024 2023 2022
Sanctions: procedures and amounts # 0 – –
(Santander UK plc)
Our data shows we had no responsive matters for 2024.
Number of ongoing ESG # 0 – –
administrative and judicial procedures
(Santander UK plc)
Reports from third parties by type This metric shows the total number of reports received through the ethics channel set up for this purpose # 3
(Santander UK Group Holdings plc) from customers and suppliers and managed locally in each unit. As this is a new metric for 2024, as part of our
alignment with Banco Santander, there is no prior year data available for disclosure.
Complaints by resolution: in favor of % 45 – –
the client (Santander UK plc)
Total complaints managed or resolved # 25,265 – –
(Santander UK plc)
Total formal complaints received # 30,778 – –
(Santander UK plc)
Complaints by type of product: % 63.0 – –
Due to Banking Procedures
(Santander UK plc)
In previous years, customers’ complaints were reported at an overall level based on the volume of FCA reportable
Complaints by type of product: Due to % 0.3 – –
complaints received within the period. The new 2024 metrics show specific complaints by product type aligned to
Insurance (Santander UK plc)
Banco Santander’s definition and reporting.
Complaints by type of product: Due to % 0.9 – –
Investments (Santander UK plc)
Complaints by type of product: Due to % 14 – –
Credit (Santander UK plc)
Complaints by type of product: Due to % 13 – –
Means of Payment (Santander UK plc)
Complaints by type of product: % 8.4 – –
Not related to the product
(Santander UK plc)
Key: 2024 data has been subject to Independent Limited Assurance by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, please refer to the Assurance opinion in this supplement. See our 2020, 2021, 2022 and 2023 supplements for the prior
AS
performance period and assurance by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. Please refer to the Methodologies and data criteria section of this supplement for further details of how we have prepared our 2024 data.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
53
Governance continued
Governance
continued
Category Notes Units 2024 2023 2022
Reports through ethical channels # 138 – –
received by type: total (Santander UK
Group Holdings plc)
Reports through ethical channels # 15 – –
processed: that pose disciplinary
measures: total (Santander UK Group
Holdings plc)
Reports through ethical channels # 0 – –
processed: relative to corruption
and bribery that pose disciplinary
measures: total (Santander UK Group
Holdings plc)
Reports through ethical channels # 0
processed: relative to discrimination
that pose disciplinary measures:
Due to adjustments made to align data points with Banco Santander, we do not have available data here that is
Relative to Equal opportunities and
equally comparable to previous years. Therefore, comparatives are not provided.
non‑discrimination (Santander UK
Group Holdings plc)
Incidents of discrimination # 37 – –
(including harassment) (Santander UK
Group Holdings plc)
Reports through ethical channels # 145 – –
closed by type: total (Santander UK
Group Holdings plc)
Number of communications # 22,324 – –
to authorities regarding Financial
Crime Compliance (Santander UK plc)
Number of Financial Crime # 35,346 – –
Compliance investigations conducted
(Santander UK plc)
Key: 2024 data has been subject to Independent Limited Assurance by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, please refer to the Assurance opinion in this supplement. See our 2020, 2021, 2022 and 2023 supplements for the prior
AS
performance period and assurance by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. Please refer to the Methodologies and data criteria section of this supplement for further details of how we have prepared our 2024 data.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
54
Methodologies
Our
Overall reporting principles
performance 1. Reporting boundaries 3. Aligning to Banco Santander
We report on the impact of operations within Santander UK Group Throughout 2024, we have looked to align as much as possible with
Holdings plc unless stated otherwise. We report on our sustainability Banco Santander’s ESG data points. As such, many of our methodologies
metrics - topics where impacts are material to Santander UK Group Holdings plc have been updated and are treated as new data points. For this reason,
and other stakeholders, including Banco Santander and third parties some of these are not equally comparable to previous years. Therefore,
such as suppliers and charities. Santander UK Group Holdings plc comparatives have not been provided in our metric tables. This approach
basis of
(also referred to as HoldCo) is made up of Santander UK plc, Santander has been taken to enable our stakeholders to understand the UK
Financial Services plc, Cater Allen and Santander Consumer Finance UK. contribution to the wider Banco Santander Group. In addition to this, we
continue to disclose some UK only ESG data points that support our local
reporting
2. Restatement of data requirements and commitments. For these, comparatives are recorded.
Data may be restated for previous years, for example due to updated billing
information. Where this happens, we’ve made a note alongside the data.
Environment Social Governance
Consumption Customers Sanctions
Carbon emissions Communities Complaints
Green/sustainable financing People Ethical channels
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
55
Methodologies continued
Environment
continued
Metric Definition Scope Units Method Source
Total energy Total energy consumption, measured in MWh, derived Santander UK plc estate: Large offices, MWh Electricity: external supplier invoices validated Supplier invoices and meter readings.
consumption from all sources of energy consumed by the Santander UK small offices, Carlton Park data centres, against consumption data gained direct from
Group Holdings plc in the course of its operations retail branches, business travel emissions smart meters (remote dial‑up). Gas: external
via road. supplier invoices validated against consumption
data gained direct from smart meters (remote
dial‑up). Oil: manual meter readings taken on sites.
Business travel: records for the distance travelled
by road is extracted from relevant internal systems
or provided by the third‑party travel admin
operator. Km travelled is then converted into
energy (MWh).
Total fossil energy Total consumption in Santander UK plc of fuel from fossil Santander UK plc estate: Large offices, MWh Gas: external supplier invoices validated against Supplier invoices and meter readings for natural
consumption fuel sources, for the exercise of its activity, measured in small offices, Carlton Park data centres, consumption data gained direct from smart gas and meter readings for oil.
MWh. retail branches, business travel emissions meters (remote dial‑up). Oil: manual meter
via road. readings taken on sites by facilities team who
then send photos of meter readings to the Quality
Manager who checks these against a spreadsheet
with the meter reading in. Business travel: records
for the distance travelled by road is extracted
from relevant internal systems or provided by the
third‑party travel admin operator. Km travelled is
then converted into energy (MWh).
Total Renewable Total consumption in Santander UK Group Holdings plc Santander UK plc estate: Large offices, small MWh Electricity: external supplier invoices validated Supplier invoices and meter readings.
energy of energy from renewable sources, for the exercise of its offices, Carlton Park data centres, retail against consumption data gained direct from
consumption activity, measured in MWh. branches. smart meters (remote dial‑up).
Water Water consumption volume from public supply system by Santander UK plc estate: Large offices, small m3 Water suppliers target 1‑2 manual meter readings Supplier invoices and meter readings.
consumption (m3) Santander UK plc. offices, Carlton Park data centres, retail per meter per annum (where a meter is installed
branches. and access is provided by site). These meter
readings are provided to SMS, (an independent
energy infrastructure and solutions provider)
within the invoicing only and so there is no second
source of meter readings to validate the bills
against. As such, any billed consumption based
on actual reads gained from the supplier are
validated against historical consumption rather
than separate meter readings. One exception to
the rule is the occupied office estate where the
FM (ISS) records monthly meter readings which
are then relayed to SMS via e‑mail. Please note:
the manual meter readings contained within this
communication are often incorrect and so are not
fit for purpose.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
56
Methodologies continued
Environment
continued
Metric Definition Scope Units Method Source
Total waste Quantity of paper and cardboard, electronic and hazardous Santander UK plc estate: Large offices, small kg Data is provided by waste suppliers and uploaded Supplier reports.
waste generated in facilities and branch networks. offices, Carlton Park data centres, retail to a centralised database. This centralised
branches (grouped). database is then subject to further processing
into the necessary categories for monitoring and
reporting purposes.
Recycled waste: Quantity of paper and cardboard and other waste Santander UK plc estate: Large offices, small kg Data is provided by waste suppliers and uploaded Supplier reports.
total (electronic and hazardous) generated in facilities and offices, Carlton Park data centres, retail to a centralised database. This centralised
branch networks, and that are later sent for recycling and branches (grouped). database is then subject to further processing
are certified for this treatment. into the necessary categories for monitoring and
reporting purposes.
Scope 1 COe Direct emissions from owned or controlled sources. GHG emissions include the activities and tCOe Our Scope 1 GHG emissions encompasses oil, SMS: Billing invoices, meter readings, mileage
2 2
emissions facilities owned or under the operational gas, direct transport, and fugitive gas emissions. claims, maintenance records.
control of the Santander UK Group Consumption and transport data is extracted Department for Energy Security and Net Zero
Holdings plc. from relevant source systems and records. Data (DESNZ) and Department for Business, Energy &
is sourced from internal systems, including meter Industrial Strategy (BEIS): Government conversion
readings, maintenance records, and internal factors for company reporting of greenhouse gas
travel systems and external systems such as; emission.
bill validation systems and external supplier
invoices. Emissions calculated for gas, oil, direct
travel, and fugitive gases following the GHG
Protocol Corporate Standard using the relevant UK
Government Department for Energy Security and
Net Zero (DESNZ) conversion factors and collated
into a total Scope 1 emissions figure. We use billing
invoices, meter readings, mileage claims, and
maintenance records to obtain our consumption
data.
Scope 2 tCOe Location‑based Scope 2 emissions refer to indirect GHG emissions include the activities and tCOe Scope 2 Location‑based GHG emissions SMS – billing invoices, mileage claims.
2 2
(Location‑based) emissions from owned or controlled sources, specifically facilities owned or under the operational encompass purchased electricity (and electric Department for Energy Security and Net Zero
emissions from the consumption of purchased electricity, heat, control of the Santander UK Group fleet/company cars). The Scope 2 emissions (DESNZ) and Department for Business, Energy &
or steam. These emissions are calculated based on the Holdings plc. for electricity consumption and our electric Industrial Strategy (BEIS): Government conversion
average emission factors of the geographic location where vehicle fleet are calculated using the relevant UK factors for company reporting of greenhouse gas
the energy is consumed. Government Department for Energy Security and emissions.
Net Zero (DESNZ)conversion factors and guidance. Latest available emissions factors from Jersey
The data for electricity consumption and travel Government Greenhouse Gas Emissions webpage
data (for electric fleet/cars) are extracted from (gov.je).
relevant source systems. This is collated into a
total Scope 2 emissions figure. We use billing
invoices and mileage claims for our consumption
data.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
57
Methodologies continued
Environment
continued
Metric Definition Scope Units Method Source
Scope 2 COe Market‑based Scope 2 emissions reflect the emissions GHG emissions include the activities and tCOe Scope 2 GHG emissions encompass purchased SMS : billing invoices, mileage claims.
2 2
(market‑based) for the electricity we have purchased, specifically from facilities owned or under the operational electricity (and electric fleet/company cars). We Latest available emissions factors from Jersey
green sources such as solar and wind. These emissions control of the Santander UK Group use the Market‑based approach to quantify our Government Greenhouse Gas Emissions webpage
are calculated based on the specific emissions factors Holdings plc. emissions, meaning we use emissions factors (gov.je)
associated with the energy contracts or suppliers chosen provided by our electricity suppliers. For our Scope
by the organisation. 2 emissions this reflects the emissions for the
electricity we have purchased via our green tariffs
which provides electricity generated via renewable
sources including biomass and wind generation.
Therefore the market‑based Scope 2 emissions for
electricity consumption are zero for Santander UK
plc. However, the disclosed figure for Santander
UK Group Holdings plc includes Santander
Financial Services electricity consumption, which
is not from renewable sources and therefore is
captured in its entirety. The emissions from the
electric fleet are calculated using the Residual
Mix from AIB Fuel Mix Disclosure, as this shows
the market share of electricity once all purchased
renewables have been removed from the grid. The
data for electricity consumption and travel data
(for electric fleet/cars) are extracted from relevant
source systems. This is collated into a total Scope
2 emissions figure. We use billing invoices and
mileage claims for our consumption data. In
2024, a new data source was identified for Jersey,
which provides a more accurate reflection of the
emissions profile of our operations in this location.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
58
Methodologies continued
Environment
continued
Metric Definition Scope Units Method Source
Scope 3 COe Indirect emissions in our value chain arising from business Scope 3 business travel includes train, plane tCOe Our Scope 3 reporting encompasses the emissions Certify (third party) – provides predominantly
2 2
emissions travel. Business travel includes all travel by Santander UK and car travel but excludes taxi travel for all caused through business travel (air, road and train). motor vehicle travel information.
(business travel Group Holdings plc (HoldCo) employees that HoldCo pays Santander UK Group Holdings plc (HoldCo) Business travel records extracted from relevant
only) for. This includes train, plane and car travel. Taxi travel is due to lack of mileage data. internal systems or provided by the third‑party Clarity (previously Agiito) (third party) – provides
excluded for all HoldCo due to lack of mileage data. Scope The emissions reflect travel undertaken travel admin operator through self‑disclosed flight and rail information.
3 GHG emissions are indirect emissions created through by employees still employed by HoldCo. expenses. Employees are not removed from the
our value chain that have not been included in Scope 1 Employees that had left Santander UK plc business mileage analysis for 2024. To include Microsoft Dynamics GP (third party) – provides
and 2. or were temporarily absent during each leavers into the mix we use a monthly refreshed travel data for SFS.
reporting period for 2022‑2023 had been version of our golden source HR file that has the
excluded from Scope 3 business travel, but option to include leavers in the data. The distance
should have been included. This excluded (kilometres) travelled is then converted into Invoice data.
population has been included for the related carbon emissions using relevant factors from UK
data points in 2024, but 2023 data was not Government Department for Farming and Rural Department for Farming and Rural Affairs (DEFRA)
updated due to the estimated uplift remaining Affairs (DEFRA) and collated into a total Scope 3 – conversion factors.
reasonable based on the assumptions emissions figure (involvement from third party
adopted at the time and the movement SMS). Car figures are based on engine size (using
compared to the 2024 actuals. In 2023, we mileage and engine size and relevant emission
made the assumption that the profile of factor), flight figures are based on average cabin
employees and nature of the travel had not seat class and for rail they are based on average
materially changed in 2022 compared to the cabin seat class and rail figures are based on
2023 data. We have used the 2023 estimated national rail conversion factor and are reliant on
uplift to amend 2022 business travel. This employee correct disclosure. We source data from
estimation also impacted the Total COe mileage claims and third party travel reports. Our
emissions, COe emissions per employ 2 ee, and Scope 3 emissions exclude emissions incurred
year‑on‑year p 2 ercentage for 2022‑2023. through working from home.
Total COe Total Scope 1, 2 (market‑based) and 3 emissions (business Santander UK Group Holdings plc. tCOe Summation of Scope 1, 2 (market‑based) and 3 Emissions data (as previously stated above).
2 2
emissions travel only). emissions (business travel only).
(excluding
financed
emissions)
COe emissions Emissions per full‑time equivalent employee (FTE) Santander UK Group Holdings plc. tCOe/FTE Total emissions in 2024 divided by total Santander Emissions data (as previously stated).
2 2
per employee for Scope 1, 2 (market based), and 3 (business travel) UK Group Holdings plc employees in Santander UK Workday.
(excluding emissions. Group Holdings reported in this ESG Supplement.
financed
emissions)
Offsetting carbon The total number of carbon credits that are used in the Santander UK Group Holdings plc. tCOe Credits equal to the calculated scope 1 and 2 Banco Santander offsetting methodology,
2
emissions Scope 1 current year, in order to offset emissions (tCOe): emissions are procured through a central Banco third‑party contracts, and supplier invoices.
2
and Scope 2 Scope 1 – direct emissions; Santander process.
Scope 2 – indirect emissions of purchased energy
(market‑based, measured in tCOe, according to the
2
guidelines of the current year’s GHG Protocol).
These credits come from existing stock and/or those
acquired in the current year.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
59
Methodologies continued
Environment
continued
Metric Definition Scope Units Method Source
Carbon credits Number of carbon credits from phase‑out projects Santander UK Group Holdings plc. tCOe Credits are purchased though Banco Santander Banco Santander offsetting methodology,
2
cancelled from cancelled to offset the current year’s carbon footprint process where individual projects are selected third‑party contracts and supplier invoices.
elimination aligned to Banco Santander policy for carbon
projects credits. Individual standard compliance,
geography, and type of credits are subject to the
specific schemes chosen, and confirmed at point
of selection.
Carbon credits Number of carbon credits from reduction projects Santander UK Group Holdings plc. tCOe Credits are purchased though Banco Santander Banco Santander offsetting methodology,
2
cancelled from cancelled to offset the carbon footprint for the current year process where individual projects are selected third‑party contracts and supplier invoices.
reduction projects aligned to Banco Santander policy for carbon
credits. Individual standard compliance,
geography, and type of credits are subject to the
specific schemes chosen, and confirmed at point
of selection.
Carbon credits Number of carbon credits from projects of recognized Santander UK Group Holdings plc. tCOe Credits are purchased though Banco Santander Banco Santander offsetting methodology,
2
cancelled from quality standard: VCS Verra, cancelled to offset the carbon process where individual projects are selected third‑party contracts and supplier invoices.
quality standard: footprint of the current year. aligned to Banco Santander policy for carbon
VCS Verra credits. Individual standard compliance,
geography, and type of credits are subject to the
specific schemes chosen, and confirmed at point
of selection.
Carbon credits Number of carbon credits from projects of recognized Santander UK Group Holdings plc. tCOe Credits are purchased though Banco Santander Banco Santander offsetting methodology,
2
cancelled from quality standard: Gold Standard GS, cancelled to offset the process where individual projects are selected third‑party contracts and supplier invoices.
quality standard: carbon footprint of the current year. aligned to Banco Santander policy for carbon
Gold Standard GS credits. Individual standard compliance,
geography, and type of credits are subject to the
specific schemes chosen, and confirmed at point
of selection.
Carbon credits Number of carbon credits from projects of recognized Santander UK Group Holdings plc. tCOe Credits are purchased though Banco Santander Banco Santander offsetting methodology,
2
cancelled from quality standard: American Carbon Registry, cancelled to process where individual projects are selected third‑party contracts and supplier invoices.
quality standard: offset the carbon footprint of the current year. aligned to Banco Santander policy for carbon
American Carbon credits. Individual standard compliance,
Registry geography, and type of credits are subject to the
specific schemes chosen, and confirmed at point
of selection.
Carbon credits Number of carbon credits from projects of recognized Santander UK Group Holdings plc. tCOe Credits are purchased though Banco Santander Banco Santander offsetting methodology,
2
cancelled from quality standard: Climate Action Reserve, cancelled to process where individual projects are selected third‑party contracts and supplier invoices.
quality standard: offset the Carbon Footprint of the current year. aligned to Banco Santander policy for carbon
Climate Action credits. Individual standard compliance, geography
Reserve and type of credits are subject to the specific
schemes chosen and are confirmed at point of
selection.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
60
Methodologies continued
Environment
continued
Metric Definition Scope Units Method Source
Carbon credits Number of carbon credits from projects within the Santander UK Group Holdings plc. tCOe Credits are purchased though Banco Santander Banco Santander offsetting methodology.
2
cancelled from European Union, cancelled to offset the carbon footprint of process where individual projects are selected Third‑party contracts and supplier invoices.
projects within the current year. aligned to Banco Santander policy for carbon
the EU credits. Individual standard compliance,
geography, and type of credits are subject to the
specific schemes chosen, and confirmed at point
of selection.
Scope 3 financed Financed emissions link the financing we provide to This metric covers the Scope 3 (cat 15) thousand We align to the PCAF methodology for the Landmark – provides EPC data.
emissions our customers for their mortgage activities in the real emissions for Santander UK Group Holdings tCO 2 e assessment of mortgages loans. Internal data
(Mortgages) e ar c e o n a o tt m rib y u t t o e g d r t e o e t n h h e o S u a s n e t g a a n s d e e m r U is K s i G o r n o s u . p T h H e o s l e d i e n m gs is p s l io c ns p A l s c m fr a o l m l n l u e m nd b i e n r g o o f n m re o s r i t d g e a n g t e ia s l l m oc o a r t t e g d a i g n e s. m kg 2 CO 2 e/ F g o u r id r a e n si c d e e w nt e ia a l c m co o u r n tg t a fo g r e s S c u o n p d e e 1 r t a h n e d P S C c A o F p e 2 E ca R l M cu a la s t s i i o s n ts s w an it d h a t d h d e i fi ti n o a n n a c l e s d u p e p m o i r s t s f io ro n m s
b pr a o s p e e d r o ti n e s p . roportion of the financial support provided to t h h a e v e c r b o e w e n n d e e xc p l e u n d d e e d n f c r i o e m s ( c th h e a n m n o e r l t i g sl a a g n e d s) PCAF e at m tr i i s b s u io ti n o s n o f f a t c h to e r b i u s i t l h d e in o g u s t b s e ta in n g d i fi n n g a a n m ce o d u . n T t h o e f the commercial clients.
book analysis due to data availability, score loan as per the reporting year for each mortgage, PCAF Database.
however these are not deemed material to £bn divided by the total property value at origination
the overall assessment. Additionally, these for each building (where this is unavailable, latest
will not tie directly to the total mortgages valuation is used). We calculate the emissions for
balance as per financial statements for each property, with PCAF derived factors. Building
Santander UK Group Holdings. emissions are calculated using the EPC label and
floor area at a property level provided to Santander
UK by the external data provider, Landmark. Where
EPC data is not available, Landmark uses modelled
data. Buildings emissions are then modelled using
PCAF emissions factors mapped by property type,
location, and EPC band. These building emissions
are multiplied by the emissions factor before being
aggregated to provide portfolio‑level emissions.
Within the calculation of emissions, attribution
is capped at 100%, this is to prevent cases where
historic valuations would generate an LTV in excess
of 100% which would lead to greater than the total
amount of emissions being applied to the property.
In addition where no valuation is available we
conservatively apply 100% of emissions.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
61
Methodologies continued
Environment
continued
Metric Definition Scope Units Method Source
Scope 3 financed Financed emissions link the financing we provide to our This metric covers the Scope 3 (cat 15) gCOe/km, In calculating our financed emissions metrics, we Internal data in relation to the cars financed.
2
emissions clients for their consumer finance activities in the real emissions for Santander UK Group Holdings thousand account for Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions of the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero
(Consumer economy to greenhouse gas emissions. plc from consumer finance provided by tCOe, vehicles being financed in line with PCAF guidance. emissions factors and modelled values obtained
Finance) Santander Consumer Finance UK (SCUK) PCA 2 F In the calculation, the attribution factor is defined from third‑party service providers.
entity. This metric only includes emissions as the outstanding amount of each loan as per the
from passenger cars. score reporting year for each vehicle, divided by the total PCAF Database.
£bn asset value for each vehicle. Vehicle emissions are
calculated through multiplying the vehicle‑specific
emission intensity values (measured in kgCOe/
2
km) by the expected vehicle distance travelled. In
the case of leases a 100% attribution factor is used.
Where available, the vehicle‑specific emission
intensity is based on the Worldwide Harmonised
Light Vehicle Test Procedure (WLTP), in line with
PCAF guidance. No further adjustments were made
to this value to account for real driving conditions,
which may result in a potential underestimation of
emissions. Where the emission intensity was not
available in the WLTP standard, this was converted
to a WLTP emission intensity. For those passenger
car entries with missing emission intensities, UK
government data for appropriate UK grid emissions
factors was used. The remaining vehicles were
excluded from the analysis due to insufficient
data availability. Scope 2 emission intensity was
calculated by using appropriate UK grid emissions
factors (kgCOe/km), and, if relevant, added to
2
the Scope 1 emission intensity figures associated
with fuel consumed. Scope 1 emission intensity
values were converted from CO to COe using
2 2
an appropriate conversion factor. The distance
travelled used was based on contract values, or
the average of all other cars in the dataset when
contract values were not available. The data quality
score has been calculated in line with guidance
provided in PCAF’s Standard Part A – Financed
Emissions, with consideration of the data sources
used for distance and emissions values. Where
both mileage and emission intensity values were
estimated, a PCAF score of 4 was applied. Where
mileage is known (as per the contract/source
system) and known emission intensity from the
vehicle type, a PCAF score of 2 was applied. Where
mileage is unknown but emissions intensity is
known, a PCAF score of 3 was used.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
62
Methodologies continued
Environment
continued
Metric Definition Scope Units Method Source
Scope 3 financed Financed emissions link the financing we provide to our This metric covers the Scope 3 (cat 15) kgCOe/ Calculations for Commercial Real Estate include Landmark (third party) – provides EPC data for
2
emissions Commercial Real Estate, Social Housing, Care Homes, emissions for Santander UK Group Holdings m2, the attribution factor. This is the outstanding social housing
(Corporate Real and Hotels and their activities in the real economy to from Commercial Real Estate, Social thousand amount of the loan at 31 December divided by Gloval Es (third party) – provides EPC data for
Estate) greenhouse gas emissions. Housing, Care Homes, and Hotels. tCOe, the total property value at origination for each Commercial Real Estate
2 building, as per PCAF’s methodology. The CRE
PCAF ERM assists with the financed emissions
population is identified using the individual asset
Score calculations and additional support from
sectoral designation from our internal collateral
£bn database. Building emissions are calculated by commercial clients
using EPC rating at a property level provided to PCAF Database
Santander UK by external data providers, Gloval
Es and Landmark. Buildings emissions are then
modelled using PCAF emissions factors based on
mapping the asset to a specific building type and
EPC rating. Where an EPC rating was not available,
the UK PCAF emissions factor for building type was
used. These building emissions are then multiplied
by the attribution factor, before being aggregated
to provide portfolio‑level emissions. The data
quality score has been calculated in line with
PCAF’s score requirements with consideration of
the data sources used for EPC ratings and square
footage. Where the most recent EPC rating and
real floor area where available a PCAF score of 3.0
was applied. Where the latest EPC rating wasn’t
available but the floor area was, a PCAF score of
4.0 was applied. Finally where neither the latest
EPC rating nor the floor area was available, a PCAF
score of 5.0 was applied. The final average Score
of 4.0 reflects that our analysis is heavily reliant
on proxy data.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
63
Methodologies continued
Environment
continued
Metric Definition Scope Units Method Source
Green finance Includes Santander UK plc’s contribution to green finance This metric is made up of green finance £bn Mortgages: Completions data comes direct from SANMF.
raised and facilitated to customers by three segments of Santander raised and facilitated across three segments our core mortgage platform (SANMF) and in Internal legacy platforms.
facilitated UK plc: Mortgages, Corporate and Commercial Banking, of Santander UK plc: Mortgages, CCB, and some cases legacy platforms. Landmark (third
Landmark (third party).
and Santander UK Consumer Finance. This metric Consumer Finance. party) data is used to match EPC data to mortgage
measures our progress towards our strategic goal to help Mortgages – covering new business completions. Landmark data is dependent on CCB internal accounting systems.
customers transition to a low‑carbon economy. mortgage finance to properties with an EPC when the updated data is available from the CAP HPI automotive industry data.
rating of A and B for Santander UK plc. relevant UK Government website. Although it
is possible that EPC ratings have changed in the
Corporate and Commercial Banking –
period they relate to (higher or lower) this is likely
structured project financing for renewable
to only impact new build properties where no
energy installations, other green energy
previous EPCs are available.
and infrastructure solutions such as real
estate and transport (including lending CCB: Financial data that has been classified as green,
and other facilities such as potential future as determined by the ESGPGM (Environmental,
exposure) within CCB. Social, Governance, Panel Governance Meeting),
is reported, and governed through CCB internal
Consumer Finance – electric vehicles and
accounting systems which is supplemented by
other green vehicles including bicycles and
additional oversight in accordance with the Green
e‑bikes. Green finance to vehicles includes
Finance Reporting Governance framework.
financing vehicles that emit less than 50g
CO per km, any bicycles and any EVs, for Consumer Finance (SCUK): CAP HPI automotive
San 2 tander UK Consumer Finance (SCUK). industry data is gathered for all cars (electric,
hybrid and internal combustion engine) and is used
to identify green vehicles. For motorbike emissions
the dealerships determine what fuel type they
each have and then only fully electric motorbikes
will be considered.
In the context of CCB additional analysis is
conducted with all deals having to be approved
through ESGPGM to ensure that the deals and/or
products fit within the specific definition and can
therefore contribute to this metric.
This method is utilised to calculate the green
finance raised and facilitated for the reporting
period. Data for multiple reporting periods is then
combined to state a cumulative figure.
Sustainability Includes Santander UK plc’s provision of SLLs either Santander UK plc; Corporate and £m We use lending platforms to report against nCino.
Linked Loans facilitated to customers (e.g. lending and facilitating Commercial Banking (CCB); Any loan that this metric (primarily nCino). Analysis is Alfa.
according to through capital markets) or raised (e.g. bond issuance). is documented in accordance with the LMA conducted by our ESG & Climate Change
Internal systems.
Santander’s This metric measures our activity towards our strategic SLL Principles and guidance. (ESG&CC) team and challenged through ESG
internal goal to help customers transition to a low‑carbon PGM (Environmental‑Social‑Governance Panel
classification economy. To identify business and transactions that can Governance Meeting) to ensure that the facility
system (total) contribute to this metric, we follow the LMA (Loan Markets components meet the LMA SLL Principles and
Association) Sustainability Loan Linked (SLL) Principles and Guidance. Reporting through nCino and Alfa,
guidance. supplemented by internal data (via ESG&CC Team)
and then submitted in one document to Head of
ESG Reporting.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
64
Methodologies continued
Social
continued
Metric Definition Scope Units Method Source
Group clients by Any natural or legal person who has a contractual Santander UK plc # Data produced from multiple reports collected Internal systems.
region, geography relationship with any Banco Santander company. from internal systems.
and Digital
Consumer Bank
Dialogue by Any natural or legal person who, as a customer of a Santander UK plc # Data produced from multiple reports collected Internal systems.
channel: Digital Banco Satander company, has logged on to their personal from internal systems.
bank – clients internet or mobile banking area or both in the last 30 days.
Dialogue by Any office at street level and freely accessible for the There are no specific exclusions to the data # Data is validated against existing monthly SAS.
channel: # of attention of the customers of any segment, and/or the provided and all open operational branches reporting within the Retail Finance and Analytics
branches attention of non‑customers. are included in the year‑end figure. department.
Ranking of NPS measures customer advocacy and predicts business Main Retail Banking customers for # We measure the main banking NPS of 16,954 Ipsos.
NPS Bank’s growth. This metric is our core measure for customer Santander UK plc and key competitors. consumers on a six‑monthly basis using an
positioning: experience. 11‑point scale (%Top2 – %Bottom 7). The latest
Individual reported data is based on the six months ending
Segment 30/09/2024. The competitor set we monitor to
benchmark ourselves against includes Barclays,
Halifax, HSBC, Lloyds Bank, Nationwide, NatWest
Group, and TSB. Our customer experience research
is independently audited by Stiga.
Community Includes contributions to Santander Universities. Santander UK plc. Includes contributions to £m On a monthly basis the we will export and save Internal systems.
investment Santander Universities. the Finance Management Report (FMR) into local Finance Manangement Report (FMR)
programmes: systems. It is filtered to only include spend against
Salesforce
Investment particular spend codes. The three codes used are
in education, Marketing, Donations and Travel. We filter out
employability and forecast spend so that only actuals remains. This
entrepreneurship is then transferred from the FMR report in to the
programmes in Budget Tracker. Where necessary, VAT is deducted
the year from invoice data. The budget tracker is approved
by the Universities Manager. Banco Santander
provides a template in which the total figure for
community investment is broken down into its
individual payments. Data is manually uploaded to
Salesforce on a quarterly basis
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
65
Methodologies continued
Social
continued
Metric Definition Scope Units Method Source
People helped Number of people helped in employability programmes Santander UK plc. # Salesforce.
through (financing upskilling, reskilling of people). Reskilling Santander Open Academy.
Santander consists of learning new skills and knowledge for
PowerBI.
Universities the same functions that the employee performs on
programmes: a regular basis. It’s therefore considered a system of
Employability additional training and education aimed at increasing the
Programmes are manually entered into
programmes effectiveness of the tasks performed by the professional.
OpenAcademy or Santander X when an a
programme is approved to go live. OpenAcademy
People helped Number of people helped in education programmes (the Santander UK plc. # Salesforce.
users manually apply to programmes using a
through purpose is to finance access to education for individuals Santander Scholarships: Santander Tech, specific application form. OpenAcademy stores Santander Open Academy.
Santander or their resources to complete their studies; traditionally Santander Language, Santander Skills all applicants for all programmes. Successful PowerBI.
Universities this has been done through scholarships). A scholarship is Santander Internship, Santander Women, applicants are selected via either random
programmes: defined as a distinction or recognition granted to a student, Santander Research, Santander Studies or generator or go through a selection process.
Education teacher or researcher to facilitate his or her academic, Santander Sustainability.
programmes personal or professional official development. Some universities operate their own selection
criteria and our scholars programme has a
People helped Number of people helped in entrepreneurship Santander UK plc. # specific selection criteria, this is created for each Salesforce.
through programmes (number of businesses supported by programme. Santander Open Academy.
Santander Santander Universities is quantified). Entrepreneurship All programmes have deadlines set up in
PowerBI.
Universities projects: programmes related to the promotion of OpenAcademy that don’t allow applicants to apply
programmes: entrepreneurship such as training for the project after this date. Frequency depends upon each
entrepreneurship development; incubation or acceleration of companies; programme.
programmes investment or financing of university‑based companies,
Data is automatically fed in to PowerBI on a daily
prizes and challenges addressed to entrepreneurial
basis. Data in PowerBI allows users to apply filters
projects.
on dates, country, courses etc.
People helped Total number of people helped for all Santander Santander UK plc. # Metrics are calculated using the PowerBI and Salesforce.
through Universities programmes (employability, education and manually input in to Salesforce on a annual basis. Santander Open Academy.
Santander entrepreneurship).
PowerBI.
Universities A ‘person helped’ is the person who receives a personal
programmes: benefit, economic or otherwise, as a consequence of the
Total ultimate purpose of a programme, service or product,
financed by the bank, its employees or clients.
Entities with Total number of unique entities related to higher education Santander UK plc. # Entity enters and signs agreement with Santander Salesforce.
agreements: with agreements with Santander Universities. Calculation UK, going through normal procurement and Third Internal systems.
Santander is based on the last 12 months. The concept ‘entities’ Party Risk Management channels and registered
Universities includes both higher education institutions (universities). in internal procurement systems. Agreements
(management are entered and saved into Salesforce. Metric
criteria) is calculated using all agreements entered into
Salesforce for a certain time period.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
66
Methodologies continued
Social
continued
Metric Definition Scope Units Method Source
Community Cumulative community investment (GBP) for the period Santander UK plc. £ On a monthly basis the we will export and save Internal systems.
investment 2023‑2026. Includes contributions to Santander the Finance Management Report (FMR) into local
programmes: Universities. systems. It is filtered to only include spend against
Investment particular spend codes. The three codes used are
in education, Marketing, Donations and Travel. We filter out
employability, and forecast spend so that only actuals remains. This
entrepreneurship is then transferred from the FMR report in to the
programmes, Budget Tracker. Where necessary, VAT is deducted
cumulative from invoice data. The budget tracker is approved
2023‑2026 by the Universities Manager. Banco Santander
provides a template in which the total figure for
community investment is broken down into its
individual payments. Data is manually uploaded to
Salesforce on a quarterly basis
Community Economic quantification of contributions made during Total spend across the following: £m Spend across the highlighted programmes – Santander Foundation matched donations and
support the period (year) that have a positive impact on the 1. S antander Foundation (all of Santander is calculated and totalled to give one overall grants are sourced from Santander Foundation
society. The metric includes the contributions made Foundation’s 2024 matched donations community support figure. reports;
through local initiatives supporting the community, and and Grants) 1. T he Santander Foundation amounts are – Sustainability Spend is extracted from
the contributions made through Santander Universities 2. Universities (total donations made calculated as spend budgeted and committed the bank’s payments system and manual
(education, employability and entrepreneurship). in 2024 to Santander UK’s university from 2024 budgets. reconciliation aligned to Finance’s report;
partners) 2. U niversity spend is calculated as payments – Universities donations are extracted from
3. Breakthrough (all 2024 Breakthrough & made in 2024. The methodology allowed a internal systems.
additional SME investment) maximum of 5% of community investment
linked to Santander Universities’ sponsorship
4. S ustainability spend from Santander
budget to be allocated to marketing activities.
UK plc Bank (2024 community support
programmes and memberships spend). 3. B reakthrough amounts are calculated as spend
Excluded: internal, operational spend budgeted and committed from 2024 budgets.
improving internal processes, hosting and 4. S ustainability amounts are calculated as spend
security for website. budgeted and committed from 2024 budgets.
This metric only considers direct community All donations are approved by the Anti‑Bribery
impact amounts and, therefore, excludes and Corruption Department, and any donations
payments in respect of memberships, that are 50,000 Euros and above, are approved
sponsorship of events or services by Banco Santander. Non‑donations, such as
provided (such as setting up volunteering membership spend or Breakthrough investment
opportunities for colleagues across are agreed with Finance Business Partners and the
Santander UK) by charitable partners. Executive Committee at the start of each calendar
Figures reported are exclusive of VAT. year. Figures reported are exclusive of VAT.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
67
Methodologies continued
Social
continued
Metric Definition Scope Units Method Source
People helped A person helped is any person receiving a benefit of Santander UK plc. # Considering the methodology from Banco Internal data systems.
through local personal, economic, or any other nature as the ultimate This metric is people supported by Santander implemented in 2023, there is a 30% Third party data systems (including Macmillan,
initiatives result of a programme, service or product with a social multiple initiatives across the organisation: deduction to all figures to avoid double counting AgeUK, Twinkl).
supporting the and/or environmental focus financed by the bank, its Santander Breakthrough, Go Digital (excluding Twinkl STEM and Santander Foundation
community employees or its customers. Excludes people unbanked, Programme with Age UK, Santander – Financial and Digital Empowerment grants).
underbanked or in financial distress that benefit from Foundation Matched Donations and
access and financial solutions from the bank (as this Financial and Digital Empowerment, Twinkl
is covered in ‘People Financially Included’ metric), STEM activity and volunteering initiatives
beneficiaries from Santander Universities programmes (as (including through our partnership with
this is covered in their own metric) and beneficiaries from National Parks and our national charity
financial education programmes (as this is covered in the partner, Macmillan Cancer Support).
‘Financial Education’).
Number of Number of children and young people who have Santander UK plc. # 1. M oneyWise data is taken from an internal Internal data systems.
children and been given access to financial education resources that This metric is supported by initiatives, data system and collated after applying a Third party data systems (e.g. Twinkl).
young people help improve financial literacy to enable them to make including: 30% deduction, as per Banco Santander
given access informed decisions and that ultimately aim to increase – Financial education provided by The methodology.
to financial financial well‑being. Individuals given access to various Numbers Game in partnership with 2. T he Numbers Game data is shared by Twinkl
education programmes are included in the quantification process Twinkl. who deduplicate and apply reductions at source.
resources only once in the entire period (year). – Financial education provided by
Santander UK plc colleagues through
MoneyWise sessions to students and
young people.
New people Cumulative number of new people who are unbanked, Santander UK plc: # Business areas share data for their respective Internal databases.
financially underbanked, in financial difficulty, or with difficulties Unbanked groups initiatives. The data is collated and updated after
included since in accessing credit who, through the Banco Santander’s applying a 30% deduction.
– Underbanked groups
2023 products and services, are able to access the financial
– Other targeted groups – People with
system and/or receive tailored finance. Financially
financial difficulties.
underserved groups are defined as people who do not
have a bank account, or who have an account but obtained Each geography takes into account its local
alternative (non‑bank) financial services in the last 12 situation.
months. The beneficiaries of these initiatives are included
in the quantification process only once in the entire period
(2023‑2025).
New people Number of NEW people who are unbanked, underbanked, Santander UK plc: # Business areas share data for their respective Internal databases.
financially in financial difficulty, or with difficulties in accessing Unbanked groups – Underbanked groups initiatives. The data is collated and updated after
included since the credit who, through the Bnaco Santander’s products and – Other targeted groups – People with applying a 30% deduction.
beginning of the services, are able to access the financial system and/or financial difficulties.
year receive tailored finance. Financially underserved groups
Each geography takes into account its local
are defined as people who do not have a bank account, or
situation.
who have an account but obtained alternative (non‑bank)
financial services in the last 12 months. The beneficiaries
of these initiatives are included in the quantification
process only once in the entire period (year).
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
68
Methodologies continued
Social
continued
Metric Definition Scope Units Method Source
Employee An overall employee engagement score demonstrating Santander UK plc. Score out Your Voice, is Santander UK’s continuous listening Workday
engagement the extent to which our employees feel committed to of 10 survey which is hosted by the Workday Peakon Peakon.
score working at Santander UK, are enthusiastic about their platform. It gathers employees’ feedback on our
work and the organisation, and whether they would speak culture in real time through monthly surveys.
highly of us externally. The engagement score represents Employees are asked to provide a score out of ten
the average of Santander UK plc employees’ scores in in response to a range of questions about their
response to engagement questions from our continuous experience working for Santander (0 = Not at all,
listening survey, Your Say, which all employees are asked 10 = Absolutely). The engagement score is the
to take part in every month. average score given by employees in response to
four questions relating to their working experience.
Headcount The number of people employed by Santander UK plc Santander UK plc # Data extracted from the source, loaded into an Workday.
at any given time. All active employees in the company, Excel spreadsheet where additional calculations
included part or full time, either hired indefinitely or are done and pivot tables produced to provide the
temporarily. Any employees inactive due to long term requested metric.
leave of absence are not included in headcount.
Headcount The number of people employed by Santander UK Group Santander UK Group Holdings plc. # Data extracted from the source, loaded into an Workday.
Holdings plc at any given time. All active employees in Excel spreadsheet where additional calculations
the company, including part or full time, either hired are done and pivot tables produced to provide the
indefinitely or temporarily. Any Inactive employee due to requested metric.
long term leave of absence are not included in headcount.
Headcount with The number of people employed permanently by Santander UK plc employees that work # Data extracted from the source, loaded into an Workday.
permanent Santander UK plc at any given time, by employee type full time contract hours or Santander UK Excel spreadsheet where additional calculations
contract: Total (temporary, seasonal, fixed term). All active employees in employees that work less than full time are done and pivot tables produced to provide the
the company, full time. contract hours (excludes UK offshore requested metric.
employees), excludes fixed term contract
employees.
Headcount The number of people employed temporarily by Santander Santander UK plc employees that are on a # Data extracted from the source, loaded into an Workday.
with temporary UK plc at any given time, by employee type (temporary, fixed term contract (FTC). Excel spreadsheet where additional calculations
contract: Total seasonal, fixed term). All active employees in the company, are done and pivot tables produced to provide the
including part or full time. requested metric.
Headcount with Number of full time employees. Santander UK plc full‑time employees that # Data extracted from the source, loaded into an Workday.
full time contract: work full time contract hours (excludes UK Excel spreadsheet where additional calculations
Total offshore employees). are done and pivot tables produced to provide the
requested metric.
Headcount Number of part time employees. Santander UK plc employees that work less # Data extracted from the source, loaded into an Workday.
with part‑time than full time contract hours (excludes UK Excel spreadsheet where additional calculations
contract: Total offshore employees). are done and pivot tables produced to provide the
requested metric.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
69
Methodologies continued
Social
continued
Metric Definition Scope Units Method Source
Headcount with The number of people employed with non‑guaranteed Santander UK plc. # Data extracted from the source, loaded into an Workday.
non‑guaranteed hours by Santander UK plc at any given time, by employee Excel spreadsheet where additional calculations
hours contract: type (workshift). All active employees in the company. are done and pivot tables produced to provide the
Total requested metric.
Employees by sex FTE of each company distributed by sex. Possible values Santander UK Group Holdings plc. # Employees’ sexes are extracted from Workday Workday.
(Male) FTE are (male, female). records containing the sex they are defined
as under UK law on their legal identification
documents.
Employees by sex FTE of each company distributed by sex. Possible values Santander UK Group Holdings plc. # Employees’ sexes are extracted from Workday Workday.
(Female) FTE are (male, female). records containing the sex they are defined
as under UK law on their legal identification
documents.
Full time Number of full time equivalent employees Santander UK Group Holdings plc. # Data extracted from the source, loaded into an Workday.
equivalent (FTE) Excel spreadsheet where additional calculations
employees are done and pivot tables produced to provide the
requested metric.
Employees by Headcount of each company distributed by gender. Santander UK plc employees that work # Data extracted from the source, loaded into an Workday.
gender (Male) Possible values are (male, female, non‑binary, not full time contract hours or Santander UK Excel spreadsheet where additional calculations
declared (incl. Blank)). employees that work less than full time are done and pivot tables produced to provide the
contract hours (excludes UK offshore requested metric.
employees).
Employees by Headcount of each company distributed by gender. # Data extracted from the source, loaded into an Workday.
gender (Female) Possible values are (male, female, non‑binary, not Excel spreadsheet where additional calculations
declared (incl. Blank)). are done and pivot tables produced to provide the
requested metric.
Employees by Headcount of each company distributed by gender. # Data extracted from the source, loaded into an Workday.
gender (Not Possible values are (male, female, non‑binary, not Excel spreadsheet where additional calculations
declared) declared (incl. Blank)). are done and pivot tables produced to provide the
requested metric.
Employees by Headcount of each company distributed by gender. # Data extracted from the source, loaded into an Workday.
gender (Others) Possible values are (male, female, non‑binary, not Excel spreadsheet where additional calculations
declared (incl. Blank)). are done and pivot tables produced to provide the
requested metric.
Headcount (# Total headcount, specific to executives. Santander UK plc. # Data extracted from the source, loaded into an Workday.
Executives) Excel spreadsheet where additional calculations
are done and pivot tables produced to provide the
requested metric.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
70
Methodologies continued
Social
continued
Metric Definition Scope Units Method Source
Headcount (# Total headcount, specific to managers. Santander UK plc. # Data extracted from the source, loaded into an Workday.
Managers) Excel spreadsheet where additional calculations
are done and pivot tables produced to provide the
requested metric.
Headcount (# Total headcount, all except for managers or executives. Santander UK plc # Data extracted from the source, loaded into an Workday.
Other employees) Excel spreadsheet where additional calculations
are done and pivot tables produced to provide the
requested metric.
Employee Total attrition/turnover percentage for permanent Santander UK Group Holdings. % Attrition/turnover calculation is the total number Workday.
turnover contract staff. of permanent contract voluntary leavers in the
rolling 12‑month period to the end of the previous
month, divided by the average permanent contract
headcount in the same period (exclusions include:
end of fixed‑term contract, transfers, severance
and redundancy/early retirement).
Headcount, by Total headcount distributed by age bracket: Under 30, Santander UK plc. # Data extracted from the source, loaded into an Workday.
age bracket (aged Between 30‑50, Over 50. Excel spreadsheet where additional calculations
<30) are done and pivot tables produced to provide the
requested metric.
Headcount, by Total headcount distributed by age bracket: Under 30, Santander UK plc. # Data extracted from the source, loaded into an Workday.
age bracket (aged Between 30‑50, Over 50. Excel spreadsheet where additional calculations
30‑50) are done and pivot tables produced to provide the
requested metric.
Headcount, by Total headcount distributed by age bracket: Under 30, Santander UK plc. # Data extracted from the source, loaded into an Workday.
age bracket (aged Between 30‑50, Over 50. Excel spreadsheet where additional calculations
>50) are done and pivot tables produced to provide the
requested metric.
FTE of ethnic Number of employees declared as belonging to an Santander UK Group Holdings plc. # Ethnicity information extracted from Workday Workday.
minority ethnic or racial minority (Black, Asian, Mixed or Other employee records. The total number of employees
employees Minority Ethnic Groups). Based on voluntary disclosures, who have disclosed ethnicity in a non‑white
with exclusions of ‘prefer not to say’ and ‘unspecified’. category (Asian, Black, other, and mixed) are
Self‑reported. All employees can update their ethnicity at added together to provide the total number. Non‑
any point. Santander does not validate employee claims of disclosed or Prefer not to disclose are excluded
their ethnicity. from this calculation.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
71
Methodologies continued
Social
continued
Metric Definition Scope Units Method Source
Headcount of Number of employees declared as belonging to an Santander UK plc. # Data extracted from the source, loaded into an Workday.
ethnic minority ethnic or racial minority (Black, Asian, Mixed, or Other Excel spreadsheet where additional calculations
employees Minority Ethnic Groups). Based on voluntary disclosures, are done and pivot tables produced to provide the
with exclusions of ‘prefer not to say‘ and ‘unspecified’. requested metric.
Self‑reported. All employees can update their ethnicity at
any point. Santander does not validate employee claims of
their ethnicity.
Headcount of Number of employees declared as belonging to an Santander UK plc. % Data extracted from the source, loaded into an Workday.
ethnic minority ethnic or racial minority (Black, Asian, Mixed or Other Excel spreadsheet where additional calculations
employees Minority Ethnic Groups). Based on voluntary disclosures, are done and pivot tables produced to provide the
with exclusions of ‘prefer not to say ’and ‘unspecified’. requested metric.
Self‑reported. All employees can update their ethnicity at
any point. Santander does not validate employee claims of
their ethnicity.
Women in Percentage of women within management group of Santander UK plc. % Data extracted from the source, loaded into an Workday.
management either ‘executive’ or ‘middle management’, out of the full Excel spreadsheet where additional calculations
positions population of active executive and middle management are done and pivot tables produced to provide the
(Executives, employees. requested metric.
Middle
Management)
Employees with Number of employees who had a performance review Santander UK plc. # Data extracted from the source, loaded into an Workday.
performance within the last 12 months. Excel spreadsheet where additional calculations
reviews are done and pivot tables produced to provide the
requested metric.
Women in Headcount, with gender = female, and with job family Santander UK plc. % Data extracted from the source, loaded into an Workday
STEM‑related groups = Service Support, IT‑Delivery, Product and IT Excel spreadsheet where additional calculations
positions (of total Project Management, IT Enterprise, or Data. Then divided are done and pivot tables produced to provide the
STEM positions) by the total headcount of the positions within those job requested metric.
family groups.
New hires by All new joiners during the calendar year 2024, distributed Santander UK plc. # Data extracted from the source, loaded into an Workday.
gender by gender. Excel spreadsheet where additional calculations
are done and pivot tables produced to provide the
requested metric.
Number of Sum of days lost to work‑related injuries and fatalities Santander UK plc. # Data extracted from the source, loaded into an Workday.
days lost due to from work‑related accidents, work‑related ill health, Excel spreadsheet where additional calculations
work‑related and fatalities from ill health are done and pivot tables produced to provide the
health (accidents requested metric.
and ill health)
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
72
Methodologies continued
Social
continued
Metric Definition Scope Units Method Source
Cases of How many incidents of work‑related ill health we had Santander UK plc. # Data extracted from the source, loaded into an Workday.
recordable during the year. Excel spreadsheet where additional calculations
work‑related are done and pivot tables produced to provide the
ill health requested metric.
(occupational
illnesses)
Days not worked Number of days on leave due to occupational accidents. Santander UK plc. # Data extracted from the source, loaded into an Workday.
due to work Excel spreadsheet where additional calculations
accidents are done and pivot tables produced to provide the
requested metric.
Number of Number of occupational accidents/injuries with leave. Santander UK plc. # Data extracted from the source, loaded into an Workday.
recordable Excel spreadsheet where additional calculations
work‑related are done and pivot tables produced to provide the
accidents requested metric.
Total Employees Number of active employees self identified with some Santander UK plc. # Data extracted from the source, loaded into an Workday.
with disability disability within the UK. Excel spreadsheet where additional calculations
are done and pivot tables produced to provide the
requested metric.
Total days Time of each session in status ‘completed’ multiplied by Santander UK Group Holdings plc. Days Learning completion data for the required period is Cornerstone.
of learning active employees only. Time is based on the estimated Contractors are not included. extracted from Cornerstone. This is combined with Workday.
completed hours a learning session is stated to require, rather than Workday employee records, to identify the entities
Employees who have left the business
the actual hours taken by the employee. to include (HoldCo). The total sum of training hours is
during the reporting period are not
calculated in a pivot table. This total is then divided by
included.
7 (standard working day), to get the total number of
days. Note, this methodology is different to previous
years in that calculations are based on estimated
hours (rather than actual hours) and assumptions
relating to face to face versus virtual training hours
have been amended to bring these in line to 7 hours
each. This brings us in line with our “Think Global”
strategic requirements and enables us to validate
centrally produced metrics on the same basis as the
Group. With this in mind, prior year data has been
updated in line with this new methodology.
Total hours Time of each session in status ‘completed’ multiplied by Santander UK plc. Hours Data extracted from the source, loaded into an Cornerstone.
of learning active employees. Excel spreadsheet where additional calculations Workday.
completed are done and pivot tables produced to provide the
requested metric.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
73
Methodologies continued
Social
continued
Metric Definition Scope Units Method Source
Total attendance Any training session completed by an active employee (as Santander UK plc. # Data extracted from the source, loaded into an Cornerstone.
to learning defined in Headcount) during the calendar year 2024. Excel spreadsheet where additional calculations Workday.
sessions are done and pivot tables produced to provide the
requested metric.
Total Sum of all expenditures accrued in learning activities, Santander UK plc. £ Report run from ESSBASE (cost reporting tool) ESSBASE (Oracle).
expenditures on during the period, expressed in GBP. to establish spend on training account codes. All
learning External suppliers / vendors expenses paid and fields covered in Excel producing total calculation.
budgeted by the Learning department (for any type
of service (training design, training sessions delivery,
communications, consulting), logistic and facilities costs
(accommodation and travel, materials), expenditures in
Marketing and Communications paid and budgeted by the
Learning department; other expenses.
Terminated All employees who are inactive as a consequence of a Santander UK plc. # Data extracted from the source, loaded into an Workday.
employees termination business process. Distributed by gender. Excel spreadsheet where additional calculations
are done and pivot tables produced to provide the
requested metric.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
74
Methodologies continued
Governance
continued
Metric Definition Scope Units Method Source
Sanctions: Administrative or regulatory procedures and claims that Santander UK plc. # The source of information to be used will be the Internal Systems.
procedures and conclude with a sanction or fine for Santander UK plc and Mass litigations will not be reported. information reported through the various local
amounts that meet the following criteria: areas of the general secretariat and the Santander
1. R elevant reputational or material impact for the UK plc operational events database, supplemented
Santander UK plc. by any other sanctions of which the other support
areas may have become aware.
2. A ligned with the following subjects or areas of action:
– Products and services
– Social and environmental aspects that are relevant to
Santander UK plc.
3. S anctions and fines when final in the reporting period,
as well as resolutions.
Ongoing ESG Administrative or regulatory procedures and claims that Santander UK plc. # The source of information to be used will be the Internal Systems.
administrative conclude with a sanction or fine for Santander UK plc and Mass litigations will not be reported. information reported through the various local
and judicial that meet the following criteria: areas of the general secretariat and the Santander
procedures 1. R elevant reputational or material impact for the UK plc operational events database, supplemented
Santander UK plc. by any other sanctions of which the other support
areas may have become aware.
2. T hat they are aligned with the following matters or
areas of action:
– Products and services
– Social and environmental aspects that are relevant to
Santander UK plc.
3. S anctions and fines when final in the reporting period,
as well as resolutions.
Reports from Total number of reports received from customers or Santander UK Group Holdings plc. Concerns # The Whistleblowing team uses a spreadsheet to EthicsPoint.
third parties suppliers through the ethics channel set up for this which were received during 2024 and log all cases to manually calculate the volumes. All Various: email, letter, phone, and any other
purpose and managed locally in each unit. qualified as whistleblowing which were concerns are categorised as either being from staff, method.
reported by a customer or a supplier. Claims customer, or supplier.
and inquiries are excluded.
Complaints by Percentage of complaints for which there has been a Santander UK plc. Complaints received % Data taken from source system to identify Complaints system data.
resolution: in resolution favourable to the client out of the total number during 2024. complaints received and closed during the
favour of the of complaints handled/resolved. reporting period, segmenting complaints found in
client favour of the client.
Total complaints Total number of complaints handled/resolved. Total number of complaints handled/ # Data taken from source system to identify Complaints system data.
managed or resolved. NB: Customers complaints complaints received and closed during the
resolved were previously reported at an overall reporting period.
level based on volume of FCA reportable
complaints received within the period. The
new 2024 metrics are specific categories of
dissatisfaction aligned to group definition
and reporting.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
75
Methodologies continued
Governance
continued
Metric Definition Scope Units Method Source
Total formal Number of formal complaints received from clients in Santander UK plc. Expressions of # Data taken from source system to identify total Complaints system data.
complaints official services: customer service, senior management, dissatisfaction/complaints received during dissatisfactions received during the reporting
received regulators/official agencies. 2024. period, segmenting by complaint type.
Complaints by Formal complaints received from clients at official services Santander UK plc. Expressions of % Data taken from source system to identify Complaints system data.
type of product (customer service, senior management, regulators/official dissatisfaction/complaints received during dissatisfactions received during the reporting
agencies) by type of product / service category, out of the 2024. period, segmenting by product type.
total number of formal complaints received from clients.
Reports through Total number of reports received through the ethics Santander UK Group Holdings plc. Concerns # The Whistleblowing team uses an excel EthicsPoint.
ethical channels channel set up for this purpose and managed locally in which were received during 2024 and spreadsheet to log all cases to manually calculate Various: email, letter, phone, and any other
received by type: each unit. Claims and inquiries are excluded. qualified as whistleblowing. the volumes received. method.
total
Reports through Total number of complaints leading to disciplinary Santander UK Group Holdings plc. # The final outcome of each whistleblowing report Internal systems.
ethical channels actions, received through the ethical channel or our Qualifying whistleblowing concerns where received is captured on the whistleblowing
processed that whistleblowing channel enabled for this purpose and the final outcome was known in 2024 and spreadsheet to manually calculate the volumes.
pose disciplinary managed locally in each unit. resulted in a colleague being dismissed
measures: total Disciplinary measures includes dismissals (employee following the conclusion of the disciplinary
leaves at the initiative of the company) and other process. Claims and inquiries are excluded.
disciplinary measures (sanctions in the employee’s
personnel file), and total number of complaints resulting
in dismissals, received through the ethical channel or our
whistleblowing channel enabled for this purpose.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
76
Methodologies continued
Governance
continued
Metric Definition Scope Units Method Source
Reports through Total number of allegations of corruption leading to Santander UK Group Holdings plc. # The final outcome of each whistleblowing report Internal systems.
ethical channels disciplinary actions and total reports related to corruption Qualifying whistleblowing concerns received is captured on the whistleblowing
processed relative that suppose dismissal, received through the ethical categorised as corruption and bribery spreadsheet to manually calculate the volumes.
to corruption channel or our whistleblowing channel enabled for this where the final outcome was known in
and bribery that purpose and managed locally in each unit. 2024 and resulted in a colleague receiving
pose disciplinary Dismissal is understood as terminations of employees at a disciplinary sanction following the
measures: total the initiative of the company. conclusion of the disciplinary process.
Claims and inquiries are excluded.
Acts of corruption may arise when individuals abuse their
position of power or responsibility for personal gain.
Disciplinary measures includes dismissals (employee
leaves at the initiative of the company) and rest disciplinary
measures (sanctions in the employee’s personnel file).
Soliciting a bribe is the act of offering, giving, receiving, or
requesting something of value in exchange for a personal
or business benefit. The object of value may consist of
money, gifts, services, or other benefits, and the benefit
sought may include obtaining or retaining business, or
obtaining some other undue benefit.
The offering of bribes relates to acts whereby a person
receives a financial or other benefit to encourage them to
perform their duties or activities improperly or a person
receives a reward for having already done so. This would
include an attempt to influence a decision‑maker by
granting some additional benefit to the decision‑maker,
beyond that which can be legitimately offered.
Reports through Total number of equal opportunities and Santander UK Group Holdings plc. # The final outcome of each whistleblowing report Internal systems.
ethical channels non‑discrimination complaints resulting in disciplinary Qualifying whistleblowing concerns received is captured on the whistleblowing
processed relative actions, received through the ethical channel or our categorised as equal opportunities/non spreadsheet to manually calculate the volumes.
to discrimination whistleblowing channel enabled for this purpose and discrimination where the final outcome was
that pose managed locally in each unit. known in 2024 and resulted in a colleague
disciplinary Reports related to equal opportunities and receiving a disciplinary sanction following
measures: Equal non‑discrimination and those related to behaviours the conclusion of the disciplinary process.
opportunities and that are not aligned with the basic principle of action in Claims and inquiries are excluded.
non‑discrimination Santander (providing the same opportunities in access to
work and professional promotion, ensuring at all times
the absence of discrimination by reason of sex or sexual
orientation, race, religion, disability, origin, marital status,
age, or social status.)
Disciplinary measures includes dismissals (employee
leaves at the initiative of the company) and rest disciplinary
measures (sanctions in the employee’s personnel file).
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
77
Methodologies continued
Governance
continued
Metric Definition Scope Units Method Source
Incidents of Total reports related to equal opportunities and Santander UK Group Holdings plc. # The Whistleblowing team uses an excel EthicsPoint.
discrimination non‑discrimination, sexual harassment, or gender‑based Concerns which were received during spreadsheet to manually log all cases to calculate Various: email, letter, phone, and any other
(including harassment received through the ethical channel or our 2024 and qualified as whistleblowing and the volumes. All concerns are categorised using method.
harassment) whistleblowing channel enabled for this purpose and categorised as sexual harassment or equal one of the Group taxonomy categories and this is
managed locally in each unit. opportunities/non discrimination. Claims recorded on the spreadsheet.
Discrimination‑related reports are understood as those and inquiries are excluded.
related to behaviours that are not aligned with the
basic principle of action in Santander (providing the
same opportunities in access to work and professional
promotion, ensuring at all times the absence of
discrimination by reason of sex or sexual orientation, race,
religion, disability, origin, marital status, age, or social
status).
Sexual harassment related reports are understood as
disrespectful behaviours or undesired conducts of a sexual
nature that are bothersome and generate an intimidatory,
offensive, or hostile working environment.
Reports through Total closed reports deemed well‑founded for Santander UK Group Holdings plc. # The Whistleblowing team uses an excel EthicsPoint.
ethical channels investigation, received through the ethical channel Qualifying whistleblowing concerns spreadsheet to manually log all cases to calculate Various: email, letter, phone, and any other
closed by type: enabled for this purpose and managed locally in each unit. which were closed during 2024. Claims the volumes. All concerns are categorised using method.
total It includes claims that have been closed. and inquiries are excluded. one of the Banco Santander taxonomy categories
and this is recorded on the spreadsheet.
Number of Number of official reports sent to regulatory authorities Santander UK plc # Data is extracted from an internal system at Internal System.
communications concerning Financial Crime Compliance matters. the end of each month via an SQL query and
to authorities transferred to a central spreadsheet. The volumes
regarding FCC are then calculated via automated Excel formulas.
(Financial Crime
Compliance)
Number of FCC Total number of internal investigations conducted Santander UK plc # Data is extracted from an internal system at Internal System.
investigations regarding potential non‑compliance or breaches related the end of each month via an SQL query and
conducted to FCC. transferred to a central spreadsheet. The volumes
(Financial Crime are then calculated via automated Excel formulas.
Compliance)
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
78
Methodologies continued
Non‑financial information Restatement policy
disclaimer
The measuring and reporting of ESG metrics
involves a degree of estimation. In certain
This report contains environmental, social, and
circumstances restatements of information reported
governance‑related (ESG) metrics, statements,
in prior periods may be necessary. Restatements are
goals, commitments, and opinions. ESG information
considered where there is a change in calculation
is prepared following various external and
methodology, an error carrying out the
internal frameworks, reporting guidelines, and
methodology, or an error in our data that will have
measurement, collection, and verification methods
a 5% or greater impact on the total previously
and practices. Many of these are materially different
reported. Where this happens, a disclosure is made
from those applicable to financial information,
alongside the restated data.
and are in many cases emerging and evolving.
The methodologies used to prepare our ESG metrics
and an independent assurance of selected metrics
can be found in this 2024 ESG Supplement. The ESG
metrics are based on various materiality thresholds,
estimates, assumptions, judgments, and underlying
data derived internally and from third parties.
The ESG metrics are thus subject to significant
measurement uncertainties, may not be comparable
to ESG metrics of other companies, or over time or
across periods. Its inclusion is not meant to imply
that the information is fit for any particular purpose
or that it is material to us under mandatory reporting
standards. The ESG data is for informational
purposes only, without any liability being accepted
in connection with it except where such liability
cannot be limited under overriding provisions of
applicable law.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
79
Methodologies continued
Regulatory cross‑referencing table
In the table we also outline our compliance with a range of ESG disclosure requirements and where this information can be located. In order to improve our ESG disclosures, this year we have voluntarily aligned where possible with the
International Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB) IFRS framework. Note: As ISSB S2 focuses solely on Climate (E), ISSB S1 focuses only on Social and Governance compliance, not environmental. This is split into the 4 non‑climate material
areas for the bank (A) Own Workforce (B) Affected Communities (C) Consumers and End‑Users (D) Business Conduct.
Framework Topics Sub topics Page reference
Annual Report & Accounts ESG Supplement
IFRS ISSB S1
IFRS ISSB S1 General
IFRS ISSB S1 An entity shall identify the financial statements to which the sustainability‑related financial Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
disclosures relate.
IFRS ISSB S1 Data and assumptions used in preparing the sustainability‑related financial disclosures shall be Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
consistent with the corresponding data and assumptions used in preparing the related financial
statements.
IFRS ISSB S1 A complete set of sustainability‑related financial disclosures shall present fairly material information Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
about all sustainability‑related risks and opportunities that could reasonably be expected to affect an
entity’s prospects.
In the context of sustainability‑related financial disclosures, information is material if omitting,
misstating or obscuring that information could reasonably be expected to influence decisions that
primary users of general purpose financial reports make on the basis of those reports, which include
financial statements and sustainability‑related financial disclosures and which provide information
about a specific reporting entity.
IFRS ISSB S1 Governance
The governance processes, controls and procedures the entity uses to monitor, manage and oversee sustainability‑related risks and opportunities
IFRS ISSB S1 (a) (a) the governance body(s) (which can include a board, committee or equivalent body charged with Our Governance:
governance) or individual(s) responsible for oversight of sustainability‑related risks and opportunities. A) page 50
Specifically, the entity shall identify that body(s) or individual(s) and disclose information about:
B) page 50
C) page 50
D) page 50
IFRS ISSB S1 (ai) how responsibilities for sustainability‑related risks and opportunities are reflected in the terms Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
of reference, mandates, role descriptions and other related policies applicable to that body(s) or
individual(s)
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
80
Methodologies continued
Framework Topics Sub topics Page reference
Annual Report & Accounts ESG Supplement
IFRS ISSB S1 (aii) how the body(s) or individual(s) determines whether appropriate skills and competencies are Not currently compliant. Not currently compliant.
available or will be developed to oversee strategies designed to respond to sustainability‑related
risks and opportunities
IFRS ISSB S1 (aiii) how and how often the body(s) or individual(s) is informed about sustainability‑related risks and Our Governance:
opportunities A) page 50
B) page 50
C) page 50
D) page 50
IFRS ISSB S1 (aiv) how the body(s) or individual(s) takes into account sustainability‑related risks and opportunities Our Governance:
when overseeing the entity’s strategy, its decisions on major transactions and its risk management A) page 7, 49
processes and related policies, including whether the body(s) or individual(s) has considered
B) page 7, 49
trade‑offs associated with those risks and opportunities
C) page 7, 49
D) page 7, 49
IFRS ISSB S1 (av) how the body(s) or individual(s) oversees the setting of targets related to sustainability‑related Not currently compliant. Not currently compliant.
risks and opportunities, and monitors progress towards those targets (see paragraph 51), including
whether and how related performance metrics are included in remuneration policies.
IFRS ISSB S1 (b) (b) management’s role in the governance processes, controls and procedures used to monitor, Our Governance:
manage and oversee sustainability‑related risks and opportunities, including information about A) page 49, 50
B) page 49, 50
C) page 49, 50
D) page 49, 50
IFRS ISSB S1 (bi) whether the role is delegated to a specific management‑level position or management‑level Our Governance:
committee and how oversight is exercised over that position or committee A) page 50, 51
B) page 50, 51
C) page 50, 51
D) page 50, 51
IFRS ISSB S1 (bii) whether management uses controls and procedures to support the oversight of Our Governance:
sustainability‑related risks and opportunities and, if so, how these controls and procedures are A) page 51
integrated with other internal functions.
B) page 51
C) page 51
D) page 51
IFRS ISSB S1 Strategy
The entity’s strategy for managing sustainability‑related risks and opportunities.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
81
Methodologies continued
Framework Topics Sub topics Page reference
Annual Report & Accounts ESG Supplement
IFRS ISSB S1 Strategy an entity shall disclose information to enable users of general purpose financial reports to Our impacts, risks and
understand: opportunities:
(a) the sustainability‑related risks and opportunities that could reasonably be expected to affect the A) page 8
entity’s prospects (see paragraphs 30‑31)
B) page 9
C) page 9
D) page 10
IFRS ISSB S1 (b) the current and anticipated effects of those sustainability‑related risks and opportunities on the Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
entity’s business model and value chain (see paragraph 32);
IFRS ISSB S1 (c) the effects of those sustainability‑related risks and opportunities on the entity’s strategy and Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
decision‑making (see paragraph 33);
IFRS ISSB S1 (d) the effects of those sustainability‑related risks and opportunities on the entity’s financial position, Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
financial performance and cash flows for the reporting period, and their anticipated effects on the
entity’s financial position, financial performance and cash flows over the short, medium and long
term, taking into consideration how those sustainability‑related risks and opportunities have been
factored into the entity’s financial planning (see paragraphs 34‑40)
IFRS ISSB S1 (e) the resilience of the entity’s strategy and its business model to those sustainability‑related risks Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
(see paragraphs 41‑42).
IFRS ISSB S1 Sustainability‑related risks and opportunities An entity shall disclose information that enables users of general purpose financial reports to
understand the sustainability‑related risks and opportunities that could reasonably be expected to
affect the entity’s prospects. Specifically, the entity shall:
IFRS ISSB S1 (a) describe sustainability‑related risks and opportunities that could reasonably be expected to affect Our impacts, risks and
the entity’s prospects; opportunities:
A) page 8
B) page 9
C) page 9
D) page 10
IFRS ISSB S1 (b) specify the time horizons – short, medium or long term – over which the effects of each of those Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
sustainability‑related risks and opportunities could reasonably be expected to occur
IFRS ISSB S1 (c) explain how the entity defines ‘short term’, ‘medium term’ and ‘long term’ and how these Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
definitions are linked to the planning horizons used by the entity for strategic decision‑making.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
82
Methodologies continued
Framework Topics Sub topics Page reference
Annual Report & Accounts ESG Supplement
IFRS ISSB S1 Business model and value chain An entity shall disclose information that enables users of general purpose financial reports to Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
understand the current and anticipated effects of sustainability‑related risks and opportunities on the
entity’s business model and value chain. Specifically, the entity shall disclose:
IFRS ISSB S1 (a) a description of the current and anticipated effects of sustainability‑related risks and opportunities Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
on the entity’s business model and value chain
IFRS ISSB S1 (b) a description of where in the entity’s business model and value chain sustainability‑related risks Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
and opportunities are concentrated (for example, geographical areas, facilities and types of assets).
IFRS ISSB S1 Strategy and decision‑making (a) how the entity has responded to, and plans to respond to, sustainability‑related risks and Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
An entity shall disclose information that enables users of opportunities in its strategy and decision‑making
general purpose financial reports to understand the effects of
sustainability‑related risks and opportunities on its strategy
and decision‑making. Specifically, the entity shall disclose
information about:
IFRS ISSB S1 (b) the progress against plans the entity has disclosed in previous reporting periods, including Medium term scorecard, A) Targets & Progress,
quantitative and qualitative information page 24 page 42‑45
B)Targets & Progress,
page 41‑42
C)Targets & Progress, page 41
D) Targets & Progress,
page 52‑53
IFRS ISSB S1 (c) trade‑offs between sustainability‑related risks and opportunities that the entity considered (for Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
example, in making a decision on the location of new operations, an entity might have considered the
environmental impacts of those operations and the employment opportunities they would create in
a community).
IFRS ISSB S1 Financial position, financial performance and cash flows (a) the effects of sustainability‑related risks and opportunities on the entity’s financial position, Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
An entity does not need to provide quantitative information financial performance and cash flows for the reporting period (current financial effects); and
about the current or anticipated financial effects of a
sustainability‑related risk or opportunity if effects are
not separately identifiable; or the level of measurement
uncertainty involved in estimating those effects is so high
that the resulting quantitative information would not be
useful (see paragraphs 77–82); or the entity does not have
the skills, capabilities or resources to provide that quantitative
information.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
83
Methodologies continued
Framework Topics Sub topics Page reference
Annual Report & Accounts ESG Supplement
IFRS ISSB S1 If an entity does not provide quantitative information, the (b) the anticipated effects of sustainability‑related risks and opportunities on the entity’s financial Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
entity shall: position, financial performance and cash flows over the short, medium and long term, taking into
(a) explain why it has not provided quantitative information; consideration how sustainability‑related risks and opportunities are included in the entity’s financial
(b) provide qualitative information about those financial planning (anticipated financial effects).
effects, including identifying line items, totals and subtotals
within the related financial statements that are likely to be
affected, or have been affected, by that sustainability‑related
risk or opportunity; and
(c) provide quantitative information about the combined
financial effects of that sustainability‑related risk or
opportunity with other sustainability‑related risks or
opportunities and other factors unless the entity determines
that quantitative information about the combined financial
effects would not be useful.
IFRS ISSB S1 (a) quantitative and qualitative information about how sustainability‑related risks and opportunities Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
have affected its financial position, financial performance and cash flows for the reporting period;
IFRS ISSB S1 (b) quantitative and qualitative information about the sustainability‑related risks and opportunities Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
identified in paragraph 35(a) for which there is a significant risk of a material adjustment within the
next annual reporting period to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities reported in the related
financial statements
IFRS ISSB S1 (c) quantitative and qualitative information about how the entity expects its financial position to Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
change over the short,medium and long term, given its strategy to manage sustainability‑related
risks and opportunities, taking into consideration
IFRS ISSB S1 (ci) its investment and disposal plans (for example, plans for capital expenditure, major acquisitions Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
and divestments, joint ventures, business transformation, innovation, new business areas, and asset
retirements), including plans the entity is not contractually committed to
IFRS ISSB S1 (cii) its planned sources of funding to implement its strategy Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
IFRS ISSB S1 (d) quantitative and qualitative information about how the entity expects its financial performance Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
and cash flows to change over the short, medium and long term, given its strategy to manage
sustainability‑related risks and opportunities.
IFRS ISSB S1 Resilience An entity shall disclose a qualitative and, if applicable, quantitative assessment of the resilience of its Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
strategy and business model in relation to its sustainability‑related risks, including information about
how the assessment was carried out and its time horizon. When providing quantitative information,
an entity may disclose a single amount or a range.
IFRS ISSB S1 Risk Management
The processes the entity uses to identify, assess, prioritise and monitor sustainability‑related risks and opportunities.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
84
Methodologies continued
Framework Topics Sub topics Page reference
Annual Report & Accounts ESG Supplement
IFRS ISSB S1 Risk management disclose information about: Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
(a) enable readers to understand an entity’s processes to (a) the processes and related policies the entity uses to identify, assess, prioritise and monitor
identify, assess, prioritise and monitor sustainability‑related sustainability‑related risks, including information about:
risks and opportunities, including whether and how those
processes are integrated into and inform the entity’s overall
risk management process
(b) enable readers to assess the entity’s overall risk profile and
its overall risk management process.
IFRS ISSB S1 (i) the inputs and parameters the entity uses (for example, information about data sources and the Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
scope of operations covered in the processes);
IFRS ISSB S1 (ii) whether and how the entity uses scenario analysis to inform its identification of Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
sustainability‑related risks;
IFRS ISSB S1 (iii) how the entity assesses the nature, likelihood and magnitude of the effects of those risks (for Our approach to materiality:
example, whether the entity considers qualitative factors, quantitative thresholds or other criteria) A) page 7
B) page 7
C) page 7
D) page 7
IFRS ISSB S1 (iv) whether and how the entity prioritises sustainability‑related risks relative to other types of risk Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
IFRS ISSB S1 (v) how the entity monitors sustainability‑related risks Risk review: Embedding climate in risk
A) Page 31, 36, 85 management
B) Page 31, 36, 85 A) page 22, 26
C) Page 31, 36, 85 B) page 22, 26
D) not yet compliant. C) page 22, 26
D) page 22, 26
IFRS ISSB S1 (vi) whether and how the entity has changed the processes it uses compared with the previous Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
reporting period
IFRS ISSB S1 (b) the processes the entity uses to identify, assess, prioritise and monitor sustainability‑related A) page 22, 26
opportunities B) page 22, 26
C) page 22, 26
D) page 22, 26
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
85
Methodologies continued
Framework Topics Sub topics Page reference
Annual Report & Accounts ESG Supplement
IFRS ISSB S1 (c) the extent to which, and how, the processes for identifying, assessing, prioritising and monitoring Risk review: Sustainability Governance &
sustainability‑related risks and opportunities are integrated into and inform the entity’s overall risk A) page 85 ESG Operating Model
management process. B) page 85 A) page 51
C) page 85 B) page 51
D) Not currently compliant C) page 51
D) page 51
IFRS ISSB S1 Performance/ Metrics and Targets
The entity’s performance in relation to sustainability‑related risks and opportunities, including progress towards any targets the entity has set or is required to meet by law or regulation.
IFRS ISSB S1 Metrics (a) An entity shall disclose, for each sustainability‑related risk and opportunity that could reasonably Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
be expected to affect the entity’s prospects: metrics required by an applicable IFRS Sustainability
Disclosure Standard.
This shall include metrics associated with particular business models, activities or other common
features that characterise participation in an industry.
IFRS ISSB S1 (b) An entity shall disclose, for each sustainability‑related risk and opportunity that could reasonably Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
be expected to affect the entity’s prospects: metrics the entity uses to measure and monitor:
(bi) that sustainability‑related risk or opportunity; and
IFRS ISSB S1 (bii) its performance in relation to that sustainability‑related risk or opportunity, including progress Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
towards any targets the entity has set, and any targets it is required to meet by law or regulation.
IFRS ISSB S1 If a metric has been developed by an entity, the entity shall disclose information about: Methodologies
(a) how the metric is defined, including whether it is derived by adjusting a metric taken from a source A) page 68‑73
other than IFRS Sustainability Disclosure Standards and, if so, which source and how the metric
B) page 64‑67
disclosed by the entity differs from the metric specified in that source;
C) page 64
D) page 74‑77
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
86
Methodologies continued
Framework Topics Sub topics Page reference
Annual Report & Accounts ESG Supplement
IFRS ISSB S1 (b) whether the metric is an absolute measure, a measure expressed in relation to another metric or a Methodologies
qualitative measure (such as a red, amber, green – or RAG – status); A) page 68‑73
B) page 64‑67
C) page 64
D) page 74‑77
IFRS ISSB S1 (c) whether the metric is validated by a third party and, if so, which party; and A) page 42‑45, 107‑110
B) page 41‑42, 107‑110
C) page 41, 107‑110
D) page 52‑53, 107‑110
IFRS ISSB S1 (d) the method used to calculate the metric and the inputs to the calculation, including the limitations Methodologies
of the method used and the significant assumptions made. A) page 68‑73
B) page 64‑67
C) page 64
D) page 74‑77
IFRS ISSB S1 Targets An entity shall disclose information about the targets it has set to monitor progress towards achieving Our social approach:
its strategic goals, and any targets it is required to meet by law or regulation. For each target, the A) page 34
entity shall disclose:
B) page 34
(a) the metric used to set the target and to monitor progress towards reaching the target;
C) Not currently compliant
D) page 47
IFRS ISSB S1 (b) the specific quantitative or qualitative target the entity has set or is required to meet; Medium term scorecard: Our social approach:
A) page 24 A) page 34
B) page 24 B) page 34
C) page 24 C) Not currently compliant
D) page 24 D) page 47
IFRS ISSB S1 (c) the period over which the target applies; Medium term scorecard: Our social approach:
A) page 24 A) page 34
B) page 24 B) page 34
C) page 24 C) Not currently compliant
D) page 24 D) page 47
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
87
Methodologies continued
Framework Topics Sub topics Page reference
Annual Report & Accounts ESG Supplement
IFRS ISSB S1 (d) the base period from which progress is measured; Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
IFRS ISSB S1 (e) any milestones and interim targets; Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
IFRS ISSB S1 (f) performance against each target and an analysis of trends or changes in the entity’s performance; Medium term scorecard:
and A) page 24
B) page 24
C) page 24
D) page 24
IFRS ISSB S1 (g) any revisions to the target and an explanation for those revisions. Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
IFRS ISSB S1 An entity shall label and define metrics and targets using meaningful, clear and precise names and Medium term scorecard: A) page 42‑45
descriptions. A) page 24 B) page 41‑42
B) page 24 C) page 41
C) page 24 D) page 52‑53
D) page 24
IFRS ISSB S2
IFRS ISSB S2 Governance
The objective of climate‑related financial disclosures on
governance is to enable users of general purpose financial
reports to understand the governance processes, controls and
procedures an entity uses to monitor, manage and oversee
climate‑related risks and opportunities. To achieve this
objective, an entity shall disclose information about:
IFRS ISSB S2 (a) (a) the governance body(s) (which can include a board, committee or equivalent body charged with Sustainability: TCFD, page 31 Page 50
governance) or individual(s) responsible for oversight of climate‑related risks and opportunities.
Specifically, the entity shall identify that body(s) or individual(s) and disclose information about:
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
88
Methodologies continued
Framework Topics Sub topics Page reference
Annual Report & Accounts ESG Supplement
IFRS ISSB S2 (i) how responsibilities for climate‑related risks and opportunities are reflected in the terms of Sustainability: TCFD, page 31
reference, mandates, role descriptions and other related policies applicable to that body(s) or
individual(s);
IFRS ISSB S2 (ii) how the body(s) or individual(s) determines whether appropriate skills and competencies are Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
available or will be developed to oversee strategies designed to respond to climate related risks and
opportunities;
IFRS ISSB S2 (iii) how and how often the body(s) or individual(s) is informed about climate‑related risks and page 50
opportunities;
IFRS ISSB S2 (iv) how the body(s) or individual(s) takes into account climate related risks and opportunities page 7, 49
when overseeing the entity’s strategy, its decisions on major transactions and its risk management
processes and related policies, including whether the body(s) or individual(s) has considered
trade‑offs associated with those risks and opportunities; and
IFRS ISSB S2 (v) how the body(s) or individual(s) oversees the setting of targets related to climate‑related risks Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
and opportunities, and monitors progress towards those targets (see paragraphs 33–36), including
whether and how related performance metrics are included in remuneration policies (see paragraph
29(g)).
IFRS ISSB S2 (b) (b) management’s role in the governance processes, controls and procedures used to monitor, page 22, 50, 51
manage and oversee climate‑related risks and opportunities, including information about:
IFRS ISSB S2 (i) whether the role is delegated to a specific management‑level position or management‑level page 22, 50, 52
committee and how oversight is exercised over that position or committee; and
IFRS ISSB S2 (ii) whether management uses controls and procedures to support the oversight of climate‑related Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
risks and opportunities and, if so, how these controls and procedures are integrated with other
internal functions.
IFRS ISSB S2 Strategy
The objective of climate‑related financial disclosures on strategy is to enable users of general purpose financial reports to understand an entity’s strategy for managing climate‑related risks and opportunities Specifically, an entity
shall disclose information to enable users of general purpose financial reports to understand:
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
89
Methodologies continued
Framework Topics Sub topics Page reference
Annual Report & Accounts ESG Supplement
IFRS ISSB S2 (a) the climate‑related risks and opportunities that could reasonably be expected to affect the entity’s page 33 page 8, 23, 25, 26
prospects (see paragraphs 10–12);
IFRS ISSB S2 (b) the current and anticipated effects of those climate‑related risks and opportunities on the entity’s page 32
business model and value chain (see paragraph 13);
IFRS ISSB S2 (c) the effects of those climate‑related risks and opportunities on the entity’s strategy and Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
decision‑making, including information about its climate‑related transition plan (see paragraph 14);
IFRS ISSB S2 (d) the effects of those climate‑related risks and opportunities on the entity’s financial position, Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
financial performance and cash flows for the reporting period, and their anticipated effects on the
entity’s financial position, financial performance and cash flows over the short, medium and long
term, taking into consideration how those climate‑related risks and opportunities have been factored
into the entity’s financial planning (see paragraphs 15–21); and
IFRS ISSB S2 (e) the climate resilience of the entity’s strategy and its business model to climate‑related changes, Page 32, 34 Page 14
developments and uncertainties, taking into consideration the entity’s identified climate‑related risks
and opportunities (see paragraph 22).
IFRS ISSB S2 Climate‑related risks and opportunities (a) describe climate‑related risks and opportunities that could reasonably be expected to affect the Page 33 page 7, 8, 23‑26
An entity shall disclose information that enables users entity’s prospects;
of general purpose financial reports to understand the
climate‑related risks and opportunities that could reasonably
be expected to affect the entity’s prospects. Specifically, the
entity shall:
IFRS ISSB S2 (b) explain, for each climate‑related risk the entity has identified, whether the entity considers the risk Page 33
to be a climate‑related physical risk or climate‑related transition risk;
IFRS ISSB S2 (c) specify, for each climate‑related risk and opportunity the entity has identified, over which time Page 33
horizons – short, medium or long term – the effects of each climate‑related risk and opportunity
could reasonably be expected to occur; and
IFRS ISSB S2 (d) explain how the entity defines ‘short term’, ‘medium term’ and ‘long term’ and how these Page 33
definitions are linked to the planning horizons used by the entity for strategic decision‑making.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
90
Methodologies continued
Framework Topics Sub topics Page reference
Annual Report & Accounts ESG Supplement
IFRS ISSB S2 Business model and value chain (a) a description of the current and anticipated effects of climate‑related risks and opportunities on Page 33
An entity shall disclose information that enables users the entity’s business model and value chain; and
of general purpose financial reports to understand the
current and anticipated effects of climate related risks and
opportunities on the entity’s business model and value chain.
Specifically, the entity shall disclose:
IFRS ISSB S2 (b) a description of where in the entity’s business model and value chain climate‑related risks and Page 35
opportunities are concentrated (for example, geographical areas, facilities and types of assets).
IFRS ISSB S2 Strategy and decision‑making (a) information about how the entity has responded to, and plans to respond to, climate‑related page 33, 35
An entity shall disclose information that enables users of risks and opportunities in its strategy and decision‑making, including how the entity plans to achieve
general purpose financial reports to understand the effects any climate‑related targets it has set and any targets it is required to meet by law or regulation.
of climate‑related risks and opportunities on its strategy and Specifically, the entity shall disclose information about:
decision‑making. Specifically, the entity shall disclose:
IFRS ISSB S2 (i) current and anticipated changes to the entity’s business model, including its resource allocation, Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
to address climate‑related risks and opportunities (for example, these changes could include plans
to manage or decommission carbon‑, energy‑ or water‑intensive operations; resource allocations
resulting from demand or supply‑chain changes; resource allocations arising from business
development through capital expenditure or additional expenditure on research and development;
and acquisitions or divestments);
IFRS ISSB S2 (ii) current and anticipated direct mitigation and adaptation efforts (for example, through changes in Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
production processes or equipment, relocation of facilities, workforce adjustments, and changes in
product specifications);
IFRS ISSB S2 (iii) current and anticipated indirect mitigation and adaptation efforts (for example, through working Page 19, 26
with customers and supply chains);
IFRS ISSB S2 (iv) any climate‑related transition plan the entity has, including information about key assumptions Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
used in developing its transition plan, and dependencies on which the entity’s transition plan relies;
and
IFRS ISSB S2 (v) how the entity plans to achieve any climate‑related targets, including any greenhouse gas Sustainability: climate risks Page 13, 17, 19, 20, 25
emissions targets, described in accordance with paragraphs 33–36. and opportunities, page 33
Metrics and targets, page 36
IFRS ISSB S2 (b) information about how the entity is resourcing, and plans to resource, the activities disclosed in Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
accordance with paragraph 14(a).
IFRS ISSB S2 (c) quantitative and qualitative information about the progress of plans disclosed in previous reporting Sustainability: Metrics and Environment: metrics, page
periods in accordance with paragraph 14(a). targets, page 36 28‑32
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
91
Methodologies continued
Framework Topics Sub topics Page reference
Annual Report & Accounts ESG Supplement
IFRS ISSB S2 Financial position, financial performance and cash flows (a) the effects of climate‑related risks and opportunities on the entity’s financial position, financial Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
An entity does not need to provide quantitative information performance and cash flows for the reporting period (current financial effects); and
about the current or anticipated financial effects of a
sustainability‑related risk or opportunity if effects are
not separately identifiable; or the level of measurement
uncertainty involved in estimating those effects is so high
that the resulting quantitative information would not be
useful (see paragraphs 77–82); or the entity does not have
the skills, capabilities or resources to provide that quantitative
information.
IFRS ISSB S2 If an entity does not provide quantitative information, the (b) the anticipated effects of climate‑related risks and opportunities on the entity’s financial position, Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
entity shall: financial performance and cash flows over the short, medium and long term, taking into consideration
(a) explain why it has not provided quantitative information; how climate‑related risks and opportunities are included in the entity’s financial planning (anticipated
(b) provide qualitative information about those financial financial effects).
effects, including identifying line items, totals and subtotals
within the related financial statements that are likely to be
affected, or have been affected, by that sustainability‑related
risk or opportunity; and
(c) provide quantitative information about the combined
financial effects of that sustainability‑related risk or
opportunity with other sustainability‑related risks or
opportunities and other factors unless the entity determines
that quantitative information about the combined financial
effects would not be useful.
IFRS ISSB S2 Specifically, an entity shall disclose quantitative and qualitative information about: (a) how Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
climate‑related risks and opportunities have affected its financial position, financial performance and
cash flows for the reporting period;
IFRS ISSB S2 (b) the climate‑related risks and opportunities identified in paragraph 16(a) for which there is a Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
significant risk of a material adjustment within the next annual reporting period to the carrying
amounts of assets and liabilities reported in the related financial statements;
IFRS ISSB S2 (c) how the entity expects its financial position to change over the short, medium and long term, given Sustainability: Strategy:
its strategy to manage climate‑related risks and opportunities, taking into consideration: Climate risks and
opportunities page 33
IFRS ISSB S2 (i) its investment and disposal plans (for example, plans for capital expenditure, major acquisitions Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
and divestments, joint ventures, business transformation, innovation, new business areas, and asset
retirements), including plans the entity is not contractually committed to; and
IFRS ISSB S2 (ii) its planned sources of funding to implement its strategy; and Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
IFRS ISSB S2 (d) how the entity expects its financial performance and cash flows to change over the short, Sustainability: Strategy:
medium and long term, given its strategy to manage climate‑related risks and opportunities (for Climate risks and
example, increased revenue from products and services aligned with a lower‑carbon economy; costs opportunities page 33
arising from physical damage to assets from climate events; and expenses associated with climate
adaptation or mitigation).
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
92
Methodologies continued
Framework Topics Sub topics Page reference
Annual Report & Accounts ESG Supplement
IFRS ISSB S2 Climate resilience (a) the entity’s assessment of its climate resilience as at the reporting date, which shall enable users Sustainability: climate stress Environment: resilience
An entity shall disclose information that enables users of of general purpose financial reports to understand: testing, page 34 strategy, page 14
general purpose financial reports to understand the resilience Sustainability: TCFD, page 33
of the entity’s strategy and business model to climate‑related
changes, developments and uncertainties, taking into
consideration the entity’s identified climate‑related risks and
opportunities. The entity shall use climate‑related scenario
analysis to assess its climate resilience using an approach
that is commensurate with the entity’s circumstances (see
paragraphs B1–B18). In providing quantitative information, the
entity may disclose a single amount or a range. Specifically, the
entity shall disclose:
IFRS ISSB S2 (i) the implications, if any, of the entity’s assessment for its strategy and business model, including Sustainability: climate stress
how the entity would need to respond to the effects identified in the climate‑related scenario analysis; testing, page 34
IFRS ISSB S2 (ii) the significant areas of uncertainty considered in the entity’s assessment of its climate resilience; Sustainability: climate stress Climate stress testing
testing, page 34 and scenario analysis page 27
IFRS ISSB S2 (iii) the entity’s capacity to adjust or adapt its strategy and business model to climate change over the Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
short, medium and long term, including;
IFRS ISSB S2 (iii1) the availability of, and flexibility in, the entity’s existing financial resources to respond to the Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
effects identified in the climate‑related scenario analysis, including to address climate‑related risks
and to take advantage of climate‑related opportunities;
IFRS ISSB S2 (iii2) the entity’s ability to redeploy, repurpose, upgrade or decommission existing assets; and Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
IFRS ISSB S2 (iii3) the effect of the entity’s current and planned investments in climate‑related mitigation, Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
adaptation and opportunities for climate resilience
IFRS ISSB S2 (b) how and when the climate‑related scenario analysis was carried out, including: Sustainability: climate stress Climate stress testing and
testing, page 34 scenario analysis page 27
IFRS ISSB S2 (i) information about the inputs the entity used, including: (1) which climate‑related scenarios the Sustainability: climate stress Climate stress testing
entity used for the analysis and the sources of those scenarios; testing, page 34 and scenario analysis page 27
IFRS ISSB S2 (2) whether the analysis included a diverse range of climate‑related scenarios; Sustainability: climate stress Page 27
testing, page 34
Sustainability: flood risk,
page 36
IFRS ISSB S2 (3) whether the climate‑related scenarios used for the analysis are associated with climate‑related Sustainability: climate stress Climate stress testing and
transition risks or climate‑related physical risks; testing, page 34 scenario analysis page 27
IFRS ISSB S2 (4) whether the entity used, among its scenarios, a climate related scenario aligned with the latest Sustainability: climate stress
international agreement on climate change; testing, page 34
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
93
Methodologies continued
Framework Topics Sub topics Page reference
Annual Report & Accounts ESG Supplement
IFRS ISSB S2 (5) why the entity decided that its chosen climate‑related scenarios are relevant to assessing its Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
resilience to climate‑related changes, developments or uncertainties;
IFRS ISSB S2 (6) the time horizons the entity used in the analysis; and Sustainability: climate stress Page 27
testing, page 34
IFRS ISSB S2 (7) what scope of operations the entity used in the analysis (for example, the operating locations and Sustainability: climate stress
business units used in the analysis); testing, page 34
IFRS ISSB S2 (ii) the key assumptions the entity made in the analysis, including assumptions about: Sustainability: climate stress Page 27
(1) climate‑related policies in the jurisdictions in which the entity operates; testing, page 34
IFRS ISSB S2 (2) macroeconomic trends; Sustainability: climate stress Page 27
testing, page 34
IFRS ISSB S2 (3) national‑ or regional‑level variables (for example, local, weather patterns, demographics, land Sustainability: climate stress Page 27
use, infrastructure and availability of natural resources); testing, page 34
IFRS ISSB S2 (4) energy usage and mix; and Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
IFRS ISSB S2 (5) developments in technology Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
IFRS ISSB S2 (iii) the reporting period in which the climate‑related scenario analysis was carried out (see paragraph Sustainability: climate stress Page 27
B18). testing, page 34
IFRS ISSB S2 Risk management
The objective of climate‑related financial disclosures on risk management is to enable users of general purpose financial reports to understand an entity’s processes to identify, assess, prioritise and monitor climate‑related risks and
opportunities, including whether and how those processes are integrated into and inform the entity’s overall risk management process. To achieve this objective, an entity shall disclose information about:
IFRS ISSB S2 (a) the processes and related policies the entity uses to identify, assess, prioritise and monitor Sustainability: climate stress Page 7, 22, 27, 50, 51
climate‑related risks, including information about: testing, page 34
IFRS ISSB S2 (i) the inputs and parameters the entity uses (for example, information about data sources and the Sustainability: climate stress page 26, 27
scope of operations covered in the processes); testing, page 34
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
94
Methodologies continued
Framework Topics Sub topics Page reference
Annual Report & Accounts ESG Supplement
IFRS ISSB S2 (ii) whether and how the entity uses climate‑related scenario analysis to inform its identification of Sustainability: climate stress page 14, 26, 27
climate‑related risks; testing, page 34
IFRS ISSB S2 (iii) how the entity assesses the nature, likelihood and magnitude of the effects of those risks (for Sustainability: climate stress page 27
example, whether the entity considers qualitative factors, quantitative thresholds or other criteria); testing, page 34
IFRS ISSB S2 (iv) whether and how the entity prioritises climate‑related risks relative to other types of risk; Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
IFRS ISSB S2 (v) how the entity monitors climate‑related risks; and Sustainability: TCFD, page 32 Page 22, 26
Susatinability: embedding
climate in risk management,
page 35‑36
IFRS ISSB S2 (vi) whether and how the entity has changed the processes it uses compared with the previous Sustainability: TCFD, page 32 page 16, 20
reporting period; Sustainability: embedding
climate in risk management,
page 35‑36
IFRS ISSB S2 (b) the processes the entity uses to identify, assess, prioritise and monitor climate‑related Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
opportunities, including information about whether and how the entity uses climate‑related scenario
analysis to inform its identification of climate‑related opportunities; and
IFRS ISSB S2 (c) the extent to which, and how, the processes for identifying, assessing, prioritising and monitoring Sustainability: TCFD, page 32 page 22, 23, 51
climate‑related risks and opportunities are integrated into and inform the entity’s overall risk Sustainability: embedding
management process. climate in risk management,
page 35‑36
IFRS ISSB S2 Performance/ Metrics and targets
The objective of climate‑related financial disclosures on metrics and targets is to enable users of general purpose financial reports to understand an entity’s performance in relation to its climate‑related risks and opportunities,
including progress towards any climate‑related targets it has set, and any targets it is required to meet by law or regulation. To achieve this objective, an entity shall disclose:
IFRS ISSB S2 (a) information relevant to the cross‑industry metric categories (see paragraphs 29–31); Sustainability: Metrics and Environment: metrics,
targets, page 35 page 28‑32
IFRS ISSB S2 (b) industry‑based metrics that are associated with particular business models, activities or other Sustainability: Metrics and Environment: metrics,
common features that characterise participation in an industry (see paragraph 32); and targets, page 35 page 28‑33
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
95
Methodologies continued
Framework Topics Sub topics Page reference
Annual Report & Accounts ESG Supplement
IFRS ISSB S2 (c) targets set by the entity, and any targets it is required to meet by law or regulation, to mitigate or Sustainability: Metrics and page 13, 18
adapt to climate‑related risks or take advantage of climate‑related opportunities, including metrics targets, page 35
used by the governance body or management to measure progress towards these targets (see
paragraphs 33–37).
IFRS ISSB S2 Climate‑related metrics (a) greenhouse gases – the entity shall: page 37 page 28
An entity shall disclose information relevant to the (i) disclose its absolute gross greenhouse gas emissions generated during the reporting period,
cross‑industry metric categories of: expressed as metric tonnes of CO equivalent (see paragraphs B19–B22), classified as:
2
(1) Scope 1 greenhouse gas emissions;
IFRS ISSB S2 (2) Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions; and page 37 page 28
IFRS ISSB S2 (3) Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions; page 37 page 29
IFRS ISSB S2 (ii) measure its greenhouse gas emissions in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A page 38 Page 56, 58
Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (2004) unless required by a jurisdictional authority or
an exchange on which the entity is listed to use a different method for measuring its greenhouse gas
emissions (see paragraphs B23–B25);
IFRS ISSB S2 (iii) disclose the approach it uses to measure its greenhouse gas emissions (see paragraphs B26–B29) page 38 Page 56‑58
including:
IFRS ISSB S2 (1) the measurement approach, inputs and assumptions the entity uses to measure its greenhouse Page 38 Page 56‑58
gas emissions;
IFRS ISSB S2 (2) the reason why the entity has chosen the measurement approach, inputs and assumptions it uses page 38
to measure its greenhouse gas emissions
IFRS ISSB S2 (3) any changes the entity made to the measurement approach, inputs and assumptions during the page 38 Page 58
reporting period and the reasons for those changes
IFRS ISSB S2 (iv) for Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions disclosed in accordance with paragraph 29(a) page 38 Page 28
(i)(1)–(2), disaggregate emissions between: (1) the consolidated accounting group (for example, for an
entity applying IFRS Accounting Standards, this group would comprise the parent and its consolidated
subsidiaries);
IFRS ISSB S2 (2) other investees excluded from paragraph 29(a)(iv)(1) (for example, for an entity applying IFRS Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
Accounting Standards, these investees would include associates, joint ventures and unconsolidated
subsidiaries);
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
96
Methodologies continued
Framework Topics Sub topics Page reference
Annual Report & Accounts ESG Supplement
IFRS ISSB S2 (v) for Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions disclosed in accordance with paragraph 29(a)(i)(2), disclose page 37, 38 Environment: metrics, page 28
its location‑based Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions, and provide information about any contractual
instruments that is necessary to inform users’ understanding of the entity’s Scope 2 greenhouse gas
emissions (see paragraphs B30–B31); and
IFRS ISSB S2 (vi) for Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions disclosed in accordance with paragraph 29(a)(i)(3), and with page 37, 38 Environment: metrics,
reference to paragraphs B32–B57, disclose: (1) the categories included within the entity’s measure page 29, 31
of Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions, in accordance with the Scope 3 categories described in the
Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard (2011);
and
IFRS ISSB S2 (2) additional information about the entity’s Category 15 greenhouse gas emissions or those page 37, 38 Environment: metrics, page 31
associated with its investments (financed emissions), if the entity’s activities include asset
management, commercial banking or insurance (see paragraphs B58–B63);
IFRS ISSB S2 (b) climate‑related transition risks – the amount and percentage of assets or business activities Sustainability: embedding
vulnerable to climate‑related transition risks; climate in risk management,
pages 35, 36
IFRS ISSB S2 (c) climate‑related physical risks – the amount and percentage of assets or business activities Sustainability: embedding
vulnerable to climate‑related physical risks; climate in risk management,
pages 35, 36
IFRS ISSB S2 (d) climate‑related opportunities – the amount and percentage of assets or business activities aligned Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
with climate‑related opportunities;
IFRS ISSB S2 (e) capital deployment – the amount of capital expenditure, financing or investment deployed Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
towards climate‑related risks and opportunities;
IFRS ISSB S2 (f) internal carbon prices – the entity shall disclose: (i) an explanation of whether and how the entity Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
is applying a carbon price in decision‑making (for example, investment decisions, transfer pricing and
scenario analysis); and
IFRS ISSB S2 (ii) the price for each metric tonne of greenhouse gas emissions the entity uses to assess the costs of Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
its greenhouse gas emissions;
IFRS ISSB S2 (g) remuneration – the entity shall disclose: Sustainability: governance Page 50, 51
(i) a description of whether and how climate‑related considerations are factored into executive highlights, page 41
remuneration (see also paragraph 6(a)(v)); and Governance: remuneration
implementation report,
page 68
IFRS ISSB S2 (ii) the percentage of executive management remuneration recognised in the current period that is Sustainability: governance Page 51
linked to climate related considerations. highlights, page 45
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
97
Methodologies continued
Framework Topics Sub topics Page reference
Annual Report & Accounts ESG Supplement
IFRS ISSB S2 Climate‑related targets (a) the metric used to set the target (see paragraphs B66–B67); Sustainability; metrics and Environment: our progress &
An entity shall disclose the quantitative and qualitative targets, page 35 targets, page 13
climate‑related targets it has set to monitor progress towards
achieving its strategic goals, and any targets it is required
to meet by law or regulation, including any greenhouse gas
emissions targets. For each target, the entity shall disclose:
IFRS ISSB S2 (b) the objective of the target (for example, mitigation, adaptation or conformance with science‑based Sustainability; metrics and
initiatives); targets, page 35
IFRS ISSB S2 (c) the part of the entity to which the target applies (for example, whether the target applies to the Sustainability; metrics and
entity in its entirety or only a part of the entity, such as a specific business unit or specific geographical targets, page 35
region);
IFRS ISSB S2 (d) the period over which the target applies; Sustainability; metrics and Environment: our progress &
targets, page 35 targets, page 13
IFRS ISSB S2 (e) the base period from which progress is measured; Sustainability; metrics and Page 13, 19
targets, page 35
IFRS ISSB S2 (f) any milestones and interim targets; Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
IFRS ISSB S2 (g) if the target is quantitative, whether it is an absolute target or an intensity target Sustainability; metrics and Page 13
targets, page 35
IFRS ISSB S2 (h) how the latest international agreement on climate change, including jurisdictional commitments Sustainability; metrics and
that arise from that agreement, has informed the target. targets, page 35
IFRS ISSB S2 An entity shall disclose information about its approach to setting and reviewing each target, and how Sustainability; metrics and
it monitors progress against each target, including: (a) whether the target and the methodology for targets, page 35
setting the target has been validated by a third party;
IFRS ISSB S2 (b) the entity’s processes for reviewing the target; Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
98
Methodologies continued
Framework Topics Sub topics Page reference
Annual Report & Accounts ESG Supplement
IFRS ISSB S2 (c) the metrics used to monitor progress towards reaching the target Sustainability; metrics and Page 13
targets, page 35
IFRS ISSB S2 (d) any revisions to the target and an explanation for those revisions. Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
IFRS ISSB S2 An entity shall disclose information about its performance against each climate‑related target and an Sustainability; metrics and Page 13, 32
analysis of trends or changes in the entity’s performance. targets, page 35
IFRS ISSB S2 For each greenhouse gas emissions target disclosed in accordance with paragraphs 33–35, an entity Sustainability; metrics and
shall disclose: (a) which greenhouse gases are covered by the target. targets, page 35
IFRS ISSB S2 (b) whether Scope 1, Scope 2 or Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions are covered by the target. page 35
IFRS ISSB S2 (c) whether the target is a gross greenhouse gas emissions target or net greenhouse gas emissions page 35
target. If the entity discloses a net greenhouse gas emissions target, the entity is also required to
separately disclose its associated gross greenhouse gas emissions target (see paragraphs B68–B69).
IFRS ISSB S2 (d) whether the target was derived using a sectoral decarbonisation approach. Not compliant Not compliant
IFRS ISSB S2 (e) the entity’s planned use of carbon credits to offset greenhouse gas emissions to achieve any net Not compliant Not compliant
greenhouse gas emissions target. In explaining its planned use of carbon credits the entity shall
disclose information including, and with reference to paragraphs B70–B71:
IFRS ISSB S2 (i) the extent to which, and how, achieving any net greenhouse gas emissions target relies on the use Not compliant Not compliant
of carbon credits;
IFRS ISSB S2 (ii) which third‑party scheme(s) will verify or certify the carbon credits; Not compliant Not compliant
IFRS ISSB S2 (iii) the type of carbon credit, including whether the underlying offset will be nature‑based or based Not compliant Not compliant
on technological carbon removals, and whether the underlying offset is achieved through carbon
reduction or removal
IFRS ISSB S2 (iv) any other factors necessary for users of general purpose financial reports to understand the Not compliant Not compliant
credibility and integrity of the carbon credits the entity plans to use (for example, assumptions
regarding the permanence of the carbon offset).
IFRS SASB (SanUK only report SASB materiality and indicators where appropriate
IFRS SASB Mortgage finance
IFRS SASB Environmental Risk to Mortgaged Properties (1) Number and (2) value of mortgage loans in 100‑year flood zones Sustainability review, page 36
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
99
Methodologies continued
Framework Topics Sub topics Page reference
Annual Report & Accounts ESG Supplement
IFRS SASB (1) Total expected loss and (2) Loss Given Default (LGD) attributable to mortgage loan default and Scenario analysis, page 34 Scenario analysis page 27
delinquency because of weather‑related natural catastrophes, by geographical region
IFRS SASB Loss Given Default (LGD) attributable to mortgage loan default and delinquency due to Scenario analysis, page 34 Scenario analysis page 27
weather‑related natural catastrophes, by geographic region
IFRS SASB Description of how climate change and other environmental risks are incorporated into mortgage Risk review, climate change,
origination and underwriting page 97
Financial statements,
Accounting policies, page 171
IFRS SASB Lending practices (1) Number and (2) value of residential mortgages of the following types: (a) combined fixed‑ and Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
variable‑rate, (b) prepayment penalty, and (c) total
IFRS SASB (1) Number and (2) value of (a) residential mortgage modifications, (b) foreclosures, and (c) short sales Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
or deeds in lieu of foreclosure
IFRS SASB Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with communications to Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
customers or remuneration of loan originators
IFRS SASB Description of remuneration structure of mortgage loan originators Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
IFRS SASB consumer finance
IFRS SASB Selling practices Percentage of total remuneration for covered employees that is variable and linked to the amount of Governance, Remuneration
products and services sold implementation report,
page 68
IFRS SASB Approval rate for (1) credit and (2) prepaid products for applicants Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
IFRS SASB (1) Average fees from add‑on products, (2) average APR of credit products, (3) average age of credit Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
products, (4) average number of credit accounts, and (5) average annual fees for pre‑paid products
IFRS SASB (1) Number of customer complaints filed, (2) percentage with monetary or nonmonetary relief Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
IFRS SASB Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with selling and servicing Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
of products
IFRS SASB Customer privacy Number of account holders whose information is used for secondary purposes Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
IFRS SASB Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with customer privacy Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
IFRS SASB Data security (1) Number of data breaches, (2) percentage that are personal data breaches, (3) number of account Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
holders affected
IFRS SASB Card‑related fraud losses from (1) card not‑present fraud and (2) card‑present and other fraud Operation risk review,
page 151
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
100
Methodologies continued
Framework Topics Sub topics Page reference
Annual Report & Accounts ESG Supplement
IFRS SASB Description of approach to identifying and addressing data security risks Risk review, Data
management, page 148
Strategic report, top risk,
data quality, page 16
Chair’s report, data risk,
page 53
IFRS SASB commercial banks
IFRS SASB Data security (1) Number of data breaches, (2) percentage that are personal data breaches, (3) number of account Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
holders affected
IFRS SASB Description of approach to identifying and addressing data security risks Risk review, Data
management, page 148
Strategic report, top risk,
data quality, page 16
Chair’s report, data risk,
page 53
IFRS SASB Systemic Risk Management Global Systemically Important Bank (GSIB) score, by category Not currently compliant. Not currently compliant.
IFRS SASB Description of approach to integrate results of mandatory and voluntary stress tests into capital Risk review, capital risk, Embedding climate in risk
adequacy planning, longterm corporate strategy, and other business activities page 136 management, page 27
(Sustainability review,
page 34)
IFRS SASB Incorporation of ESG Factors in Credit Analysis Description of approach to incorporation of environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors in Risk review, credit risk, Embedding climate in risk
credit analysis page 84 management, page 22
Sustainability, credit exposure,
page 36
IFRS SASB Financial Inclusion & Capacity Building (1) Number and (2) amount of loans outstanding that qualify for programmes designed to promote Not currently compliant. Not currently compliant.
small business and community development
IFRS SASB (1) Number and (2) amount of past due and nonaccrual loans or loans subject to forbearance that Not currently compliant. Not currently compliant.
qualify for programmes designed to promote small business and community development
IFRS SASB Number of no‑cost retail checking accounts provided to previously unbanked or underbanked Strategic report: ESG medium Social, metrics, page 41‑42
customers term scorecard, page 24
IFRS SASB Number of participants in financial literacy initiatives for unbanked, underbanked, or underserved Strategic report: ESG medium Social, Santander Foundation,
customers term scorecard, page 24 page 38
Sustainability review,
page 39‑40
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
101
Methodologies continued
Framework Topics Sub topics Page reference
Annual Report & Accounts ESG Supplement
IFRS SASB Business Ethics Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with fraud, insider Not currently compliant Not currently compliant
trading, antitrust, anticompetitive behaviour, market manipulation, malpractice, or other related
financial industry laws or regulations
IFRS SASB Description of whistleblower policies and procedures Governance: chair’s report,
page 57
SECR Annual global GHG emissions from activities for which the Sustainability review: Environment Metrics,
company is responsible, including combustion of fuel and Streamlined Energy and page 28‑29
operation of any facility, and the annual emissions from the Carbon Reporting, page 37‑38
purchase of electricity, heat, steam or cooling by the company
for its own use.
SECR Underlying global energy use Sustainability review: Environment Metrics, page 28
Streamlined Energy and
Carbon Reporting, page 37‑38
SECR Energy use and GHG emissions figures from previous year Sustainability review: Environment Metrics,
(exempt in 1st year) Streamlined Energy and page 28‑29
Carbon Reporting, page 37‑38
SECR At least one emissions intensity ratio Sustainability review: Environment Metrics,
Streamlined Energy and page 28‑29
Carbon Reporting, page 37‑38
SECR Narrative on energy efficiency measures Sustainability review: Environment: reducing our
Streamlined Energy and own environmental impact,
Carbon Reporting, page 37‑38 properties, page 19
SECR Details of methodology used Sustainability review: Methodologies,
Streamlined Energy Environment, page 55‑58
and Carbon Reporting,
page 37‑38
Companies Act
Companies Act 414CA
Non‑financial and sustainability information statement
Companies Act A strategic report of a company to which this subsection applies must include a non‑financial and Strategic report: sustainability
sustainability information statement. highlights, page 27
Companies Act the group strategic report relates to undertakings that include the company and its subsidiary N/A N/A
undertakings (if any),
Companies Act the report is prepared for a financial year of the parent undertaking that ends at the same time as, or N/A N/A
before the end of, the company’s financial year
Companies Act the report includes a group non‑financial and sustainability information statement in respect Strategic report: sustainability Further information, page 4
of all the undertakings included in the consolidation. highlights, page 27
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
102
Methodologies continued
Framework Topics Sub topics Page reference
Annual Report & Accounts ESG Supplement
Companies Act 414CB
Contents of non‑financial and sustainability information
statement
Companies Act The non‑financial and sustainability information statement (a) a description of the company’s governance arrangements in relation to assessing and managing Risk Management Overview: Embedding climate in risk
must contain the climate‑related financial disclosures of the climate‑related risks and opportunities; Top Risk, page 16 management, page 22‑27
company. TCFD, page 31‑32
Companies Act (b) a description of how the company identifies, assesses, and manages climate‑related risks and Climate stress testing and Embedding Climate in Risk
opportunities; scenario analysis, page 34 Management, page 22‑27
TCFD, page 31‑32
Companies Act (c) a description of how processes for identifying, assessing, and managing climate‑related risks are Climate stress testing and Embedding Climate in Risk
integrated into the company’s overall risk management process; scenario analysis, page 34 Management, page 22‑27
Embedding climate in risk
management, page 35‑36
TCFD, page 31‑32
Companies Act (d) a description of – Risks & Opportunities, page 33 Environment: Embedding
(i) the principal climate‑related risks and opportunities arising in connection with the company’s TCFD, page 31‑32 climate in risk management,
operations, and page 22‑27
Companies Act (ii) the time periods by reference to which those risks and opportunities are assessed; Sustainability review: risk, Environment: Embedding
opportunities and scenario climate in risk management,
analysis, page 34 page 22‑27
TCFD, page 31‑32
Companies Act (e) a description of the actual and potential impacts of the principal climate‑related risks and Climate stress testing and Environment: Embedding
opportunities on the company’s business model and strategy; scenario analysis, page 34 climate in risk management,
TCFD, page 31‑32 page 22‑27
Companies Act (f) an analysis of the resilience of the company’s business model and strategy, taking into Climate stress testing and Strategy & Progress:
consideration different climate‑related scenarios; scenario analysis, page 34 Resilience strategy, page 14
TCFD, page 31‑32
Companies Act (g) a description of the targets used by the company to manage climate‑related risks and to realise Sustainability review: Strategy & Progress, page 13
climate‑related opportunities and of performance against those targets; and Metrics & targets, page 35
TCFD, page 31‑32
Companies Act (h) a description of the key performance indicators used to assess progress against targets used to Sustainability review: Page 28‑32
manage climate‑related risks and realise climate‑related opportunities and of the calculations on Metrics & targets, page 35‑38
which those key performance indicators are based.] TCFD, page 31‑32
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
103
Methodologies continued
Framework Topics Sub topics Page reference
Annual Report & Accounts ESG Supplement
Companies Act Contain information, to the extent necessary for an (a) environmental matters (including the impact of the company’s business on the environment), Environment, page 30‑38 Environment, page 13‑32
understanding of the company’s development, performance
and position and the impact of its activity, relating to, as a
minimum –
Companies Act (b) the company’s employees, Social: people, page 40 Social: People, page 39‑40
Board Audit Committee
Chair’s report:
Whistleblowing, page 57
Directors’ report: Ethical Code
of Conduct, page 75
Companies Act (c) social matters, Social: communities, Social: Communities,
page 39‑40 page 37‑38
Companies Act (d) respect for human rights, and Governance, page 44
Companies Act (e) anti‑corruption and anti‑bribery matters. Risk review: Financial crime Our risks and opportunities,
risk, page 151 page 10
Board Audit Committee Chair’s
report: Whistleblowing,
page 57
Top and emerging risks,
page 77
Directors’ report: Ethical Code
of Conduct, page 75
Companies Act The information must include (a) a brief description of the company’s business model, Business Model, page 3‑5
Companies Act (b) a description of the policies pursued by the company in relation to the matters mentioned in NFIS Statement page 27
subsection (1)(a) to (e) and any due diligence processes implemented by the company in pursuance of
those policies,
Companies Act (c) a description of the outcome of those policies, NFIS Statement page 27
Companies Act (d) a description of the principal risks relating to the matters mentioned in subsection (1)(a) to (e) Risk review , page 75 Risks and opportunities (env),
arising in connection with the company’s operations and, where relevant and proportionate – Effectiveness of risk page 24
management system Our impacts, risks and opps
and internal controls, (all ESG), page 8‑10
page 53
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
104
Methodologies continued
Framework Topics Sub topics Page reference
Annual Report & Accounts ESG Supplement
Companies Act (i) a description of its business relationships, products and services which are likely to cause adverse Risk review, page 75 Risks and opportunities (env),
impacts in those areas of risk, and Effectiveness of risk page 24
management system and Our impacts, risks and opps
internal controls, page 53 (all ESG), page 8‑10
Companies Act (ii )a description of how it manages the principal risks, and Risk review, page 75 Environment: embdedding
Effectiveness of risk climate in risk management,
management system and page 22‑27
internal controls, page 53 Governance: second and third
line risk, page 51
Sustainability governance,
page 49‑51
ESG Op model, page 51
Companies Act (e) a description of the non‑financial key performance indicators relevant to the company’s business. Our performance and KPIs, Metrics, page 54‑77
page 13‑14
TCFD
TCFD Governance
TCFD (a) Describe the board’s oversight of climate‑related risks and opportunities. TCFD, page 31 Pages 50‑51
TCFD (b) Describe management’s role in assessing and managing climate‑related risks and opportunities. TCFD, page 31 Pages 50‑51
TCFD Strategy
TCFD (a) Describe the climate‑related risks and opportunities the organization has identified over the short, Sustainability review, page 30 Environment, page 24
medium, and long term. TCFD, page 31‑33
TCFD (b) Describe the impact of climate related risks and opportunities on the organisation’s businesses, Climate stress testing and Environment: Embedding
strategy, and financial planning. scenario analysis, page 34 climate in risk management,
TCFD, page 31‑2 page 22‑27
TCFD (c) Describe the resilience of the organisation’s strategy, taking into consideration different Climate stress testing and Strategy & Progress:
climate‑related scenarios, including a 2°C or lower scenario. scenario analysis, page 37 Resilience strategy, page 14
TCFD, page 31‑33
TCFD Risk Management
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
105
Methodologies continued
Framework Topics Sub topics Page reference
Annual Report & Accounts ESG Supplement
TCFD (a) Describe the organisation’s processes for identifying and assessing climate‑related risks. TCFD, page 31‑33 Environment: Embedding
climate in risk management,
page 22‑27
TCFD (b) Describe the organisation’s processes for managing climate‑related risks. TCFD, page 31‑33 Environment: Embedding
climate in risk management,
page 22‑27
TCFD (c) Describe how processes for identifying, assessing, and managing climate‑related risks are Embedding climate in risk Environment: Embedding
integrated into the organisation’s overall risk management. management, page 35‑36 climate in risk management,
TCFD, page 31‑33 page 22‑27
TCFD Metrics and targets
TCFD (a) Disclose the metrics used by the organisation to assess climate‑related risks and opportunities in TCFD, page 32 Environment Metrics,
line with its strategy and risk management process. TCFD Metrics and Target, page 28‑32
page 35‑38
TCFD (b) Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and the TCFD, page 32 Environment Metrics,
related risks. TCFD Metrics and Target, page 28‑32
page 35‑38
TCFD (c) Describe the targets used by the organisation to manage climate‑related risks and opportunities TCFD Metrics and Target, Strategy & Progress, page 13
and performance against targets page 35‑38
TCFD, page 32‑33
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
106
Directors’ statement
Directors’ Statement on Santander As the Directors of Santander UK Group Holdings
plc (“Santander”) we confirm that we are solely
UK Group Holdings plc’s selected
responsible for the preparation of selected
Subject Matter Information within Subject Matter Information within the ARA and
the Annual Report and Accounts ESG Supplement for the year ended 31 December
2024 including this Directors’ Statement and for
(“ARA”) and the Environment,
reporting the Selected Subject Matter Information
Social and Governance (“ESG”) in accordance with the reporting criteria set out
on pages 54 to 77 and ensuring that the reported
Supplement for the year ended
information is supported by appropriate books
31 December 2024 and records.
We confirm, to the best of our knowledge and belief,
that we have:
– designed, implemented and maintained internal
controls and processes over information relevant
to the measurement, evaluation and preparation
of the Subject Matter Information that is free
from material misstatement, whether due to
fraud or error;
– established objective reporting criteria that
is appropriate for preparing and presenting
the Subject Matter Information, including
clear definition of the entity’s organisational
boundaries, and applied them consistently;
– presented information, including the reporting
criteria, in a manner that provides relevant,
complete, reliable, unbiased/neutral,
comparable and understandable information;
– reported the Subject Matter Information in
accordance with the reporting criteria.
Director of Financial Reporting
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
of Santander UK Group Holdings plc
7 March 2025
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
107
Assurance opinion
Independent Limited Assurance Our work assurance engagement. Consequently, the level and external evidence and assessing whether
Professional standards applied of assurance obtained in a limited assurance their classification is consistent with the
Report to the Directors of Santander
We performed a limited assurance engagement engagement is substantially lower than the Reporting Criteria, and whether the financing
UK Group Holdings on selected in accordance with International Standard assurance that would have been obtained had a values are consistent to those recorded in
Subject Matter Information within on Assurance Engagements 3000 (Revised) reasonable assurance engagement been performed. Santander’s loan management systems;
‘Assurance Engagements other than Audits or – Inspecting supporting evidence to determine
the Environment, Social and
Reviews of Historical Financial Information’ and, In performing our assurance procedures, which whether Santander’s mortgage, auto‑finance
Governance Supplement and the in respect of the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, were based on our professional judgement, we and corporate real estate exposures and
in accordance with International Standard on performed the following: transactions are consistent with the Reporting
Annual Report and Accounts for the
Assurance Engagements 3410 ‘Assurance Criteria for the financed emissions related
year ended 31 December 2024 Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements’, – Obtained an understanding of the Reporting Subject Matter Information;
issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Criteria and assessed whether they are consistent – Inspecting input data for the calculation of
Standards Board. with relevant industry guidance for the Subject the financed emissions related Subject Matter
Our limited assurance conclusion Matter Information; Information, including outstanding loan
Based on the procedures we have performed, as Our independence and quality control – Obtained an understanding of the control amounts, value of the underlying assets, floor
described under the “Summary of work performed” We have complied with the Institute of Chartered environment, processes and systems relevant to area of properties financed, vehicle mileage,
and the “Areas of Assurance Focus” sections below, Accountants in England and Wales Code of the preparation of the Subject Matter Information; GHG emissions, emissions factors, and
and the evidence we have obtained, nothing has Ethics, which includes independence and other – Compared year on year movements in the Subject Santander’s data quality scores against internal
come to our attention that causes us to believe that requirements founded on fundamental principles Matter Information and made inquiries with records and external data;
the selected Subject Matter Information marked of integrity, objectivity, professional competence management to obtain explanations for any – Inspecting the calculated values for the
with the symbol ‘AS’ in the Santander UK Group and due care, confidentiality and professional significant differences identified; financed emissions related Subject Matter
Holdings plc (“Santander”) Environment, Social behaviour, that are at least as demanding as the – Performed limited substantive testing on information to assess whether the calculations
and Governance Supplement (“ESG Supplement”) applicable provisions of the International Code a selective basis on the Subject Matter are consistent with the Reporting Criteria,
and the Annual Report and Accounts (“Annual of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including Information including: and making inquiries of management
Report”) for the year ended 31 December 2024 and International Independence Standards) issued and their third party service providers to
summarised in Appendix A (together, the “Subject by the International Ethics Standards Board for All selected Subject Matter Information obtain explanations for any significant
Matter Information”), has not been prepared, in all Accountants (IESBA Code). – Agreeing arithmetical accuracy of calculations, differences identified;
material respects, in accordance with Santander’s and comparing data points to, or from,
Reporting Criteria (the “Reporting Criteria”) set out We apply International Standard on Quality source information and assessing whether Social
on pages 54 to 77 of Santander’s ESG Supplement Management (UK) 1 and accordingly maintain a the underlying subject matter had been – Comparing records maintained in Santander’s
available on Santander’s websitei. comprehensive system of quality management appropriately evaluated or measured, human resources and training systems to data
including documented policies and procedures recorded, collated and reported. used to prepare the people related Subject
What we were engaged to assure regarding compliance with ethical requirements, Matter Information and assessing whether
The Subject Matter Information subject to professional standards and applicable legal and Environment their classification and aggregation are
our limited assurance is set out in Appendix A. regulatory requirements. – Comparing records maintained by Santander consistent with the Reporting Criteria;
The Subject Matter Information needs to be read on energy/fuel consumption and business – Comparing records maintained in Santander’s
and understood together with the Reporting Criteria Summary of work performed travel to underlying information used to internal systems to data used to prepare the
which Santander’s Directors are solely responsible We performed a limited assurance engagement. prepare the Scope 1, 2 and 3 (business community support related Subject Matter
for selecting and applying. The Reporting Criteria Because the level of assurance obtained in a limited travel) emissions related Subject Matter Information, including payments made to
are as set out on pages 54 to 77 of Santander’s ESG assurance can vary, we give more detail about the Information, which included invoice data for beneficiary organisations.
Supplement. The scope of our work did not extend procedures performed, so that the intended users the use of energy/fuel, renewable energy
to information in respect of earlier periods or to any of the Subject Matter Information can understand supply contracts, employee travel records, – Evaluated the disclosures and overall
other information included in, or linked from, the the nature, timing and extent of procedures emissions conversion rates and data prepared presentation of the Subject Matter Information.
ESG Supplement or the Annual Report. we performed as context for our conclusion. by third parties;
The procedures performed vary in nature and timing – Comparing information on the underlying
from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable green finance transactions to relevant internal
i The maintenance and integrity of Santander’s websites (http://www.santander.co.uk/about‑santander/investor‑relations and http://www.santandersustainability.co.uk)
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
is the responsibility of the Directors; the work carried out by us does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, we accept no responsibility for any
changes that may have occurred to the reported Subject Matter Information or Reporting Criteria when presented on Santander’s website.
108
Assurance opinion continued
Our limited assurance procedures specifically Areas of Assurance Focus that involved significant judgement, or other
Overall materiality
did not include: The Areas of Assurance Focus are those areas areas where significant assurance effort was
– Evaluating the suitability of design or the of our work that, in our professional judgement, needed. This approach provides transparency
Materiality may differ depending upon the
operating effectiveness of control activities over require additional procedures. In the case of about where we deemed it necessary to perform
nature of the Subject Matter Information.
the preparation of the subject matter information; limited assurance, that means our procedures extra work. However, this does not imply ‑ for
We apply professional judgement to consider
– Testing the accuracy of employee self‑disclosed may be towards the upper end of those that might limited assurance ‑ the same level of assurance
the most appropriate materiality benchmark for
information on ethnicity; and be expected for limited assurance. These areas as would have been obtained under a reasonable
each aspect of the Subject Matter Information,
– Testing the completeness and accuracy of were identified as part of our risk assessment and assurance engagement.
having considered how the intended users may
information supplied to Santander by third parties result of the assurance procedures performed,
use the information.
related to financed emissions (EPC ratings, floor and include those areas of significant risk, areas
area and vehicle emissions) and on the use of
funds paid by Santander in relation to community The benchmark approach for each aspect of We considered the following to be Areas of Assurance Focus and discussed these with Santander’s management.
the selected Subject Matter Information is
support initiatives.
indicated in the table in Appendix A by one of the Calculation of financed emissions metrics and the use of estimated data for residential mortgages,
following numbers: auto finance and commercial real estate
Materiality
We are required to plan and perform our work to 1. This metric is an absolute number. Nature of the issue Santander prepares the metrics for financed emissions using data from internal
address the areas where we have identified that A benchmark materiality of 5% has management information systems, supplemented by data from third party
a material misstatement of the Subject Matter been applied. providers. The preparation of the metrics is dependent on the nature of the available
Information is likely to arise. We set certain
information, including the preparation and use of estimates when actual data is not
quantitative thresholds for materiality. These, 2. This metric is a percentage. A benchmark
available, such as EPC ratings, floor area, building emissions, vehicle emissions and
together with qualitative considerations, helped us materiality of 5% has been applied to both
vehicle mileage. We identified a heightened level of judgement in relation to the
to determine the nature, timing and extent of our the numerator and denominator used in the
calculation and use of estimated values due to the complexity of the methodology
procedures in support of our conclusion. We believe percentage calculation.
and calculation processes.
that it is important that the intended users have the
information they need to understand the concept 3. This metric is a ratio or intensity measure, How our work The following procedures were performed in addition to those set out above:
each of which is calculated as a ratio between
and the level of materiality to place our conclusion addressed the areas – Assessed the consistency of Santander’s methodology for the calculation of
2 different numbers. A benchmark of 5%
in context. Based on our professional judgement, of assurance focus financed emissions with the guidance from Partnership for Carbon Accounting
has been applied to both the numerator and
we determined materiality for the Subject Matter Financial (‘PCAF’) ‑ Part A, 2nd Edition, 2022;
denominator used in the calculation; and
Information as follows: – Recalculated financed emissions, estimated values and weighted data quality
scores for residential mortgages, auto finance and commercial real estate using
4. This PCAF data quality score metric is a
Santander’s documented methodology and independently sourced inputs for the
weighted average. A benchmark of 0.2
estimated values when actuals were not available, including EPC ratings and EPC
has been applied.
floor areas (residential mortgages and commercial real estate), asset type, fuel
type and distance (auto finance); and
We also agreed to report to the Directors
– Compared the recalculated values with those prepared by Santander and made
misstatements (“reportable misstatements”)
inquiries of management to obtain explanations and supporting analysis for any
identified during our work at a level below overall
significant differences identified, including in relation to changes in the calculation
materiality, as well as misstatements below that
methodologies in the current period.
lower level that in our view warranted reporting for
qualitative reasons. The Directors are responsible Element(s) of the – Residential Mortgages Portfolio financed emissions 2023 metrics;
for deciding whether adjustments should be made Subject Matter – Auto finance Portfolio financed emissions 2023 metrics; and
to the Subject Matter Information in respect of Information most – Commercial Real Estate Portfolio financed emissions 2023 metrics.
those items. significantly impacted
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
109
Assurance opinion continued
Challenges of non‑financial information Reporting on Other Information Responsibilities of the Directors Our responsibilities
The absence of a significant body of established The other information comprises all of the The Directors of Santander are responsible for: We are responsible for:
practice upon which to draw to evaluate and information in the ESG Supplement other than – determining appropriate reporting topics – planning and performing the engagement to
measure non‑financial information allows the Subject Matter Information and our assurance and selecting or establishing suitable criteria obtain limited assurance about whether the
for different, but acceptable, evaluation and report. The Directors are responsible for the other for measuring or evaluating the underlying Subject Matter Information is free from material
measurement techniques that can affect information. As explained above, our conclusion subject matter; misstatement, whether due to fraud or error;
comparability between entities, and over time. does not extend to the other information and, – ensuring that those criteria are relevant and – forming an independent conclusion, based on the
accordingly, we do not express any form of appropriate to Santander and the intended users procedures we have performed and the evidence
Non‑financial information is subject to more assurance thereon. In connection with our assurance of the ESG Supplement and the Annual Report; we have obtained; and
inherent limitations than financial information, given of the Subject Matter Information, our responsibility – the preparation of the Subject Matter – reporting our conclusion to the Directors
the characteristics of the underlying subject matter is to read the other information. In doing so, we Information in accordance with the Reporting of Santander
and the methods used for measuring or evaluating consider whether the other information is materially Criteria including designing, implementing and
it. The precision of different measurement inconsistent with the Subject Matter Information, maintaining systems, processes and internal Use of our report
techniques may also vary. or our knowledge obtained during the assurance controls over the evaluation or measurement of Our report, including our conclusion, has been
engagement, or otherwise appears to contain the underlying subject matter to result in Subject prepared solely for the Directors of Santander
Furthermore, it is generally acknowledged by a material misstatement of fact. If we identify Matter Information that is free from material in accordance with the agreement between us
stakeholders globally, including regulators, an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; dated 15 January 2025 (the “agreement”). To the
that there are significant limitations in the misstatement of fact, we are required to perform – documenting and retaining underlying fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept
availability and quality of company specific procedures to conclude whether there is a material data and records to support the Subject or assume responsibility or liability to anyone other
information, including GHG emissions data from misstatement of the Subject Matter Information or a Matter Information; than the Board of Directors and Santander for our
third parties, resulting in reliance on proxy data. material misstatement of the other information, and – producing the ESG Supplement and Annual work or our report except where terms are expressly
These limitations are reflected in the assigned PCAF to take appropriate actions in the circumstances. Report that provides a balanced reflection agreed between us in writing.
data quality categories for reported Subject Matter of Santander’s performance in this area and
Information. It is anticipated that the principles and discloses, with supporting rationale, matters PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
methodologies used to measure and report the relevant to the intended users of the ESG Chartered Accountants
Subject Matter Information will develop over time Supplement and Annual Report; and London
and may be subject to change in line with market – producing a statement of Santander’s 7 March 2025
practice and regulation, impacting comparability responsibility, as set out on page 106 of the
year‑on‑year. ESG Supplement.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
110
Assurance opinion continued
Appendix A – Subject Matter Information
Reporting Criteria for the selected Subject Matter Information are set out on pages 54 to 77 of Santander’s ESG Supplement for the year ended 31 December 2024,
which can be found on the following website: http://www.santandersustainability.co.uki
Subject Matter Information Unit/Measure Performance in 2024
Environment
Scope 1 CO2e emissions (Santander UK Group Holdings plc)1 tCO2e 2,473
Scope 2 CO2e emissions (Market‑based) (Santander UK Group Holdings plc)1 tCO2e 65
Scope 3 CO2e emissions (business travel only) (Santander UK Group Holdings plc)1 tCO2e 3,039
Total CO2e emissions (excluding financed emissions) (Santander UK Group Holdings plc)1 tCO2e 5,577
CO2e emissions per employee (excluding financed emissions) (Santander UK Group Holdings plc)3 tCO2e/ Total HoldCo FTE 0.29
Green finance raised and facilitated1 £bn 3.9
Scope 3 financed emissions (Mortgages) 2023
Lending exposure assessed1 £bn 175.3
Absolute emissions1 mtCO2e 1,221
Emissions intensity3 kgCO2e/ m2 20.9
PCAF score4 # 3.2
Scope 3 financed emissions (Consumer Finance) 2023
Lending exposure assessed1 £bn 8.6
Absolute emissions1 mtCO2e 1,336
Emissions intensity3 gCO2e/ km 141.3
PCAF score4 # 2.1
Scope 3 financed emissions (Commercial Real Estate) 2023
Lending exposure assessed1 £bn 9.6
Absolute emissions1 mtCOe 114
2
Emissions intensity3 kgCO2e/ m2 25.4
PCAF score4 # 4.0
Social
Community Support1 £m 10.5
Employees by sex FTE (Male) (Santander UK Group Holdings plc)1 # 8,507
Employees by sex FTE (Female) (Santander UK Group Holdings plc)1 # 9,648
Employee turnover (Santander UK Group Holdings plc)2 % 9.41
FTE of ethnic minority employees (Santander UK Group Holdings plc)1 # 4,140
Total days of learning completed (Santander UK Group Holdings plc)1 # 37,147
1, 2, 3 and 4 Please refer to “Overall materiality”
table for materiality thresholds.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024
111
Read more
Want to find
out more?
For more information visit
Annual Report 2024
Diversity
Taxation Strategy
Modern Slavery Statement
Environment Policy Statement
Santander
UK Sustainability
and Social
Impact
team
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2024