Environmental, Social and
Governance Supplement 2022
Santander UK Group Holdings plc
How we report
We report Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) in a targeted way to effectively
Contents
respond to our stakeholder needs. This ESG Supplement accompanies our Santander UK
Group Holdings plc 2022 Annual Report and Accounts (referred to as our Annual Report in this How we report 1
document) and provides a data-driven summary of our sustainability performance. Within the Our Sustainability and
Responsible Banking strategy 2
Annual Report, we have a new, dedicated Sustainability and Responsible Banking section.
Our performance 3
Methodologies and data criteria 24
United Nations Sustainable
Development Goals 34
GRI Index and SASB 35
Directors’ statement 42
Our reporting suite Sustainability Everyday UK Taxation Modern Slavery Environmental, Annual Report
Assurance opinion 43
microsite Inclusion and strategy Statement Social and and Accounts
Pay Gap Report Governance
Supplement
Topics covered
1 S ustainability strategy !L !L !L
2 Materiality !L
3 I ntegration with !L
business strategy
4 T askforce on Climate-Related !L !L
Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
5 ESG policies !L !L
6 Diversity pay gap !L !L !L
7 S takeholder engagement !L !L !L
Santander UK Group Holdings plc is
8 R esponsible taxation !L responsible for preparation of the ESG
information and all the supporting
9 Human rights !L !L !L !L
records, including selecting appropriate
measurement and reporting criteria, in
Access Santander UK’s full reporting suite at santander.co.uk our Annual Report, this ESG Supplement
and the additional reports published on
Access Banco Santander’s full reporting suite at santander.com/en/our-approach/reports our website.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2022 1
Our Sustainability and Responsible Banking strategy
Being a responsible business is a key business priority and part of our core strategy. Our Sustainability and Responsible Banking (SRB) strategy sets out our ambition in this area.
It supports our vision of helping people and business prosper and responds to our most important, or material, sustainability issues. It consists of three pillars plus one solid foundation.
Santander UK’s strategic ambition: to become a sustainable and responsible bank
Thriving workplace Better communities Healthy environment
Creating a culture of inclusivity and belonging Helping customers and communities prosper Fighting climate change and supporting the green economy
We aim to create a thriving workplace that develops a culture of We want to deliver long-lasting, sustainable growth and positive socio- We will play our part in supporting the UK transition to a low-carbon
inclusivity and belonging. economic impact including providing good outcomes for our customers. economy and support the green economy.
Our material issues
– Diversity, inclusion and belonging – Financial inclusion – Privacy, data protection and – Climate risk management
– Employee wellbeing and talent and empowerment cyber security – Portfolio alignment to net zero
– Organisational culture and governance – Community engagement Additional priorities: – Own operational footprint
and support
Additional priorities – Santander education Additional priorities:
– Sustainable finance
– Social mobility – Santander Foundation – Ensuring a just transition
– Inclusive innovation
and digitalisation
UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) – see page 34 for further details on core SDGs
Our solid foundation
Being responsible, in everything we do
We will aim to be responsible in everything we do with ethics and integrity being a solid foundation of our strategy, enabling businesses and society to prosper.
Our material issues Additional priorities
– Ethics and compliance – Human and labour rights – Responsible supply chain – Responsible banking practices – Financial crime
and procurement
UN Sustainable Development Goals
Delivering on our strategic priorities and creating value for all of our stakeholders
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2022 2
Medium-term scorecard
In late 2021, we established a medium-term scorecard. This consists of targets for 2022-2025, and in some cases 2030. These will measure our
performance and progress in key areas of our SRB strategy. We set the targets with two main considerations in mind: targets that will strengthen our
contribution to existing Banco Santander group public commitments, and targets that will help us to meet our sustainability priorities. We will conduct
a review of metrics and targets in 2023 to ensure they continue to be fit for purpose in meeting our sustainability priorities.
Strategic pillar Key issue Medium-term target Performance 2022 Performance 2021
Diversity, inclusion 50% (+/-10%) senior female employees by 2025 33.2% 31.9%
and belonging
14% (+/-2%) senior Asian, Black, and other Minority 11.1% 9.8%
Ethnic employees by 2025
Thriving
40-60% of women on the Board by 2030 33% 33%
workplace
Organisational culture Top 10 company to work for by 2025 30th 16th
and governance
Social mobility 35% of senior employees from a lower socio-economic 29% 29%
background by 2030
Financial inclusion Three million People Financially Empowered by 2025 2,141,163 751,720
(cumulative since 2019)
2 million children and young people given 1,792,812 500,088
Better a meaningful financial education by 2025
(cumulative since 2019)
communities
Supporting customers £20bn of green finance raised and facilitated by 2025 £6.5bn £3.97bn
transition to a low
carbon economy
1.3 million customers with properties that have an EPC 807,383 3,651
Healthy rating of D or below communicated with1 to improve
environment the efficiency of their homes by 2025
180,000 customers supported to become greener 32,968 N/A – Data collection commenced in 2022
with products and services by 2025
1. To measure this, we are collecting visits to the Greener Homes Hub and emails that have been opened by customers with information on making energy efficiency improvements. This is what we have considered as ‘communicated with’.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2022 3
2022 Performance summary
The below table shows our progress in 2022 and next steps in each area.
Our sustainability priorities Key issue(s) 2022 performance Looking forward
Thriving Diversity, inclusion – We maintained an upward trajectory in our senior female population – This is a long-term strategic commitment for us and we will continue to
and belonging this year. work hard to increase diversity and representation at senior employee
workplace levels over the medium term.
– Our female representation on the Board has not changed this year. – We don’t anticipate any large fluctuations in representation on our board
in the near future.
– Our eight People Networks play an important role in bringing – We will continue to have board sponsors for each People Network.
lived experiences into our decision making and promoting allyship.
The networks (which all have a Board and Executive Committee
sponsor) cover gender, ethnicity, LGBTQ+, disability, families and carers,
social mobility, mental wellbeing, and veterans and reservists.
– We continue to appear in key external benchmarks, Times Top 50 – We will continue to participate in key external benchmarks as part of our
for Women, Social Mobility Index and for the first time, Stonewall’s ongoing commitment to Diversity, Inclusion and Belonging.
Workplace Equality Index.
Organisational – We are recognised as a Top Employer by the Top Employers Institute, – Although our 2022 placing dropped slightly from 2021, our continuous
culture and are accredited by Great Place to Work as a Best Super Large listening tool Your Say has provided us with improved visibility of our key
Organisation (Rank 30), Best Workplace for Women and Best focus areas, which we continue to work on in order to meet our target.
and governance
Workplace for Wellbeing. We continue to participate in the Great – We expect to see fluctuations year on year on our position in the Top 10
Place to Work rankings as we aim to achieve a top ten ranking over the company table that is influenced by a variety of factors. We carefully
medium term. review the feedback and incorporate appropriate changes which are
then reflected in the following years.
Social mobility – We continue to encourage our senior leaders to disclose their socio- – Our social mobility agenda will take on a new focus in 2023 as it becomes
economic background as we develop our social mobility agenda. an additional priority within our Sustainability and Responsible Banking
We have assigned a new senior sponsor to help drive our agenda strategy. We are also developing new ways to create momentum within
forward and we continue to integrate social mobility into our our internal Social Mobility Network, a network of motivated colleagues
Sustainability and Responsible Banking strategy. who are working to deliver change for young adults within the community
and our own workforce.
Employee wellbeing – This year we took steps to enhance our training and development – We have also started a new partnership with Sustainability Unlocked,
and talent for all employees by developing a new mandatory training module. an online learning platform that will provide colleagues access to a
This module will now form part of our suite of training designed to wealth of high-quality video-based learning materials. Colleagues will
educate staff on Being Responsible which underpins our Sustainability be able to learn at their own pace, as well as dive into the rich library of
and Responsible Banking strategy. content provided. We will roll this out to greater numbers of colleagues
throughout 2023.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2022 4
2022 Performance summary continued
Our sustainability priorities Key issue(s) 2022 performance Looking forward
Better Financial inclusion – We have outperformed our expectations this year on our work to – As we look at the short and medium term, we will continue to place
improve financial education and financial resilience, empowering emphasis on building financial resilience. The nature of the current UK
communities 2,141,163 people since 2019. The figure has grown significantly due economic environment means this work is vitally important right now.
mainly to the overall success of the Numbers Game initiative in Our financial support centre of excellence will continue to empathise with
collaboration with Twinkl. The Numbers Game was a new initiative and support customers, providing them with a personal service as we all
in late 2021 and in 2022. Further information can be found on page navigate the rising costs of living.
12. Our work on financial education has been very successful and we
continue to support and build financial resilience across the UK with our
partners and our own internal financial support centre of excellence.
– Our work with our partner Twinkl has been successful this year – We place great emphasis on our work to provide financial education and
reaching more than one million young people with financial education will continue to do so in the medium term. This is a strategic priority for us
resources. These are distributed virtually and can be accessed by and we look forward to continuing to deliver successful financial education
parents and school teachers alike. Our work with Young Enterprise has programmes for young people.
also been successful reaching over 105,000 school children.
Community – In 2022, Santander Universities launched its new scholarship, skills – We also know that higher education isn’t for everyone. So we are investing
engagement and entrepreneurship programme designed to fuel the success of a in ideas that provide a pathway for all, no matter where they are in the UK.
new generation of university students from under-represented groups. We are also working on opportunities to share more free and accessible
and support
Through the programme, we aim to remove barriers of entry to higher learning programmes with people from all backgrounds, giving everyone
education for these groups level the currently uneven playing field and the opportunity to learn and thrive.
build essential skills for the future to ensure employment outcomes – When our new headquarters, Unity Place in Milton Keynes, opens its
match peers from outside these groups. doors in 2023 we will welcome MK:U, a new-model, digital and technical
– To achieve these aims, we will continue working with our established higher education provider, to partner with us. We look forward to working
university partners to increase opportunities for under-represented together to create courses and qualifications that will help develop the
students, whether through our scholarships, living wage internships skills of the future and encouraging local learners to come and join us.
that help students focus on their future, or specialist entrepreneur
centres to help turn students’ passion projects into a business.
Cyber security – This year we have bolstered our internal team of Cyber Champions – – We will be launching a new training module for colleagues on cyber
colleagues that encourage completion of the mandatory cyber safety security as part of our Digital Fluency programme. This module has been
training and help spread awareness of the various cyber crime training designed to help improve the knowledge of cyber security and how to
and related workshops we have throughout the year. Our Hacktober keep ourselves safe from online threats. The training will also provide
event in October focused on educating colleagues in the psychology of colleagues with information about the latest threats, key technological
a cyber criminal and the latest ways to stay safe online and at home. advancements and secure user behaviours relevant both home and
at work.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2022 5
2022 Performance summary continued
Our sustainability priorities Key issue(s) 2022 performance Looking forward
Healthy Supporting – We have performed strongly in our distribution of green finance. – We are currently working on improving our governance and reporting
customers’ We have adopted Banco Santander’s Sustainable Finance Classification framework to ensure transparency of our financial reporting process for
environment System, which provides a uniform and robust way to identify green green finance. We will continually make improvements and continue
transition to a low-
investments and loans within our CCB, Consumer Finance and to seek independent assurance. We will also continue to support the
carbon economy Mortgage portfolios. Our mortgage lending performed strongly in transition to a low carbon economy by making financing available to
2022. We anticipate that 2023 will pose a more challenging economic residential and business customers as we progress towards our medium-
environment for the mortgage market. term target of providing £20bn of Green Finance by 2025.
– In 2022, we launched our new Green Homes Hub which provides – Moving into 2023 we will continue to focus on our retrofitting strategy and
consumers with tools to educate them on the energy performance look at ways in which we can develop our product tailored to customer
certificate (EPC) rating of their home and some ways in which they needs. EnergyFact reports have proven to be an ongoing success and we
can improve energy efficiency. We continue to offer a free EnergyFact will continue to offer these to existing customers.
report, provided by our partner, Countrywide, to customers with
existing lending products. This gives them a more detailed outlook on
potential energy efficiency retrofitting improvements.
– This year we have performed strongly in the mortgage market to offer – A key aim for us over the next year is to develop our green finance funding
loans for green mortgages, as well as lending for businesses through streams to allow more customers the opportunity to apply for funding.
our corporate lending programmes. We are looking at how we can We will continue to provide funding in the consumer finance market for
develop our green finance products further. auto loans for electric and hybrid vehicles and will look to support greater
numbers of customers as they navigate the challenging economic climate.
We are also considering our ability to influence customers against existing
and emerging Government policy when developing decarbonisation plans.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2022 6
Thriving workplace
Creating a culture of We entered the ranking at number 86 and hold strategy. Detailed analysis helps to create Women in Science, Technology,
inclusion and belonging a Gold Award for our commitment to LGBTQ+ action plans and define new and changing Engineering and Mathematics (STEM)
inclusion. workforce profiles
Our new Women in STEM programme
Our ambition – Our Skills Model guides how we up-skill
Our aim is to be a place where all our people We’re also accredited as a Disability Confident and mobilise our current workforce. aims to identify and overcome the factors
feel they belong and are supported to Leader, a Carer Confident Employer, a Tommy’s Completion of a skills profile helps that contribute to underrepresentation of
succeed. We want to provide a workplace Pregnancy & Parenting at Work Champion and colleagues to assess the gap between what females within STEM-based roles.
with a responsible culture where anyone and proud member of The Smallest Things Hall of they know now and the needs and demands
everyone can learn and grow while being Fame for our support for our people whose of work in the future This year, 60 women will take part in the
babies are born prematurely. first edition of the programme. The goal is
themselves. For us, this means doing the right – Dojo is a global Banco Santander learning
to recognise and enable the acceleration
thing and collaborating to get the best from and development initiative that connects all
Our work to support women’s health was of our existing female talent through
each other. Employee wellbeing is central to Santander countries to one global learning
recognised at the Menopause Friendly a series of engaging developmental
our approach. Through our Everyday Inclusion and development ecosystem. It supports
Employer Awards, and we are honoured to activities. In doing so, we hope to grow
strategy we aim to be a truly inclusive and employee growth with market-leading
have been awarded The Lord Mayor’s Award our female representation in STEM-
diverse organisation; one that reflects the learning and development opportunities
for Advancing Socio-Economic Diversity based roles.
customers and communities we serve. in Business. – We use Workday, Banco Santander’s Global
Human Capital Management platform, to
Recognition for our approach to inclusion, provide a seamless view of colleagues’ skills
Our reporting on creating a thriving
belonging and wellbeing and competences, while making it easier to
workplace is split across our Annual
Santander UK is proud to be recognised as a communicate internally and work together.
Report and ESG supplement.
Top Employer and we are accredited as one of
Information on the following topics can
the UK’s Best Workplaces, Best Workplaces for Our Career Mobility strategy, aims to make
be found in Sustainability review of our
Women and Best Workplaces for Wellbeing by moving roles within Santander UK feel
Annual Report 2022.
Great Place To Work. effortless. Using the online My Career hub,
colleagues can search for openings across
– Culture
We regularly receive recognition for our Santander UK. My Career also provides career
approach to inclusion, belonging and resources and is regularly updated to highlight – Inclusion and belonging
Skills development
wellbeing at Santander UK. We feature in The relevant changes to careers within Santander – Wellbeing
We believe continuous learning is a key enabler
Times Top 50 Employers for Women and the to help our people adapt to a fast-paced UK. Since it’s launch in May 2022 the hub has – Fair pay and transparency
Top 75 of the Social Mobility Employer Index. received over 125,000 hits and more than 56%
ever-changing environment. Our Capability
We also hold awards for Best Mental Health of all hires in non-entry level roles in 2022
strategy helps us attract and retain the
and Wellbeing Strategy from Workplace came from internal talent.
most talented and skilled employees. It also
Savings and Benefits; Best for Mental Health
contributes to accelerating our transformation
and Wellbeing by Working Families; and
by fostering their continuous development.
InsideOut’s Large Financial Services Employer
Several projects further this objective:
of the Year.
– Strategic Workforce Planning (SWP)
This year saw us achieve a long-term ambition
identifies and quantifies the resources and
of appearing in the top 100 of Stonewall’s
skills we need to deliver our future business
Workplace Equality Index for the first time.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2022 7
Thriving workplace continued
Reverse mentoring circles Working in partnership with recognised Salary ranges and pay progression Our priorities going forward
We believe an inclusive culture starts from trade unions arrangements are visible to all colleagues In 2023 and beyond, we will continue to
the top, so in October 2022 we launched our We continue to work in partnership with our and any salary reviews or changes to reward focus on reinforcing our culture and being an
first Reverse Mentoring Circles initiative with two recognised trade unions: Advance and policies are assessed for adverse impacts on inclusive and responsible employer, growing
our Executive Committee. Reverse mentoring the Communication Workers Union (CWU), in a particular group. We embrace transparent the personal and business capabilities we need
pairs experienced senior leaders (the mentees) particular on supporting colleagues through pay reporting and voluntarily publish our for future success. Embedding our revised
with more junior colleagues (the mentors). the cost of living crisis. We maintained ethnicity pay gap, including individual pay TEAMS behaviour framework will be a key
It promotes diversity of thought among an stable industrial relations during the year gaps for colleagues of Asian, Black, and other focus, supporting our people to become role
organisation’s leadership as well as providing and consultation with union representatives Minority Ethnic identities, alongside the models for our new behaviours (see more in
junior colleagues with greater exposure to on changes associated with our business statutory gender pay gap disclosure. We also our Annual Report).
senior colleagues whilst also developing their transformation have continued. voluntarily disclose our CEO pay ratio in the
core skill set. The Mentoring Circles provide the Remuneration Implementation Report within The opening of Unity Place, our new
senior leadership team with valuable insight Recognition and reward our Annual Report. headquarters, will create opportunities to build
into how it feels working for Santander UK Enabling our people to recognise each other on our new ways of working and enhance
and ways in which we can improve inclusion, across the organisation helps to build a culture Post-pandemic ways of working our culture transformation. Embedding the
belonging and wellbeing for our people. of appreciation, connection and belonging. Following the pandemic, we welcomed Financial Conduct Authority’s (FCA) Consumer
We promote this with our UK-wide platform, employees back to our head office from March. Duty standards will also enable us to create
The programme consists of 43 colleagues Kudos, which gives everyone the opportunity We have listened to our people through our a stronger connection to our purpose and
and 12 senior leaders. Each circle has two to give and receive recognition – or kudos – to Your Say survey to determine how we keep continue to enhance our customer centric
senior leaders who will be both mentees others. Employees can add relevant skills or delivering great outcomes for our customers model, delivering great outcomes to
and sponsors, advocating for their mentors culture tags when giving kudos to colleagues, while also giving our people flexibility in when, our customers.
and supporting their career progression. such as our Simple, Personal, Fair values, where and how they work. We’ve adopted
The 43 more junior colleagues are all from Santander Behaviours, and I AM Risk (our risk a test and learn approach; identifying what
diverse backgrounds and will mentor the culture programme). New for 2022 our people works well and enables our people to do their
senior leaders. The group format enables can now endorse each other’s skills, helping best work. We offer a hybrid approach for head
senior mentees to build stronger affinity to support their growth and development. office employees, blending home-and office-
and quicker connections, diversifying the Kudos is an essential tool for employee based work. We see an important role for our
conversation by hearing from a broader group engagement and directly supports our offices as a place for close connection between
of junior mentors. The Circles will meet four strategic priority to engage, motivate, develop, teams, managers and stakeholders. It is also a
times over a five-month period covering the and retain talented and diverse teams. crucial part of defining and sustaining a positive
topics: 1) telling your story; 2) what inclusion working culture where our people can belong.
means to you; 3) intersectionality; and 4) Employee reward is another essential part We’re excited to welcome our people to our
power dynamics. of recognising our employees. Our reward new state of the art HQ, Unity Place, from Q2
framework is reviewed annually against the 2023. Find out more at the Unity Place website.
external marketplace and we are proud to
have been an accredited Real Living Wage
employer since 2015. In 2022, we took several
actions to relieve cost of living pressure on our
people, including a one-off salary increase for
11,000 colleagues in lower pay bands.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2022 8
Thriving workplace continued
Key: 2022 data has been subject to Independent Limited Assurance
AS
Thriving workplace by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, please refer to page 43 of this
supplement. See our 2020 and 2021 supplement for the prior
performance period and assurance by PricewaterhouseCoopers
Category Unit 2022 2021 2020 Notes LLP. Please refer to the Methodologies and data criteria section of
this supplement for further details of how we have prepared our
2022 data.
Our people
Employees – Santander UK plc # 18,572 17,967 20,946
Employees – UK HoldCo # 18,750 18,049 21,046
Salaries and other staff costs – UK HoldCo £m 1,179 1,202 1,189
Full-time employees # 16,086 15,208 17,558
Part-time employees # 2,664 2,841 3,488
Employees – diversity
Asian, Black and Minority Ethnic employees # AS 3,359 2,545 2,926
Employees aged over 50 # 3,359 3,910 4,424
Female Board Directors (Non-Executive) # 4 4 3
Male Board Directors (Non-Executive) # 6 6 7
Female Board Directors (Executive) # 0 0 1
Male Board Directors (Executive) # 2 2 3
Female Executive Committee # 3 3 3
Male Executive Committee # 9 8 10
Female employees # AS 10,187 9,783 11,504
Male employees # AS 8,562 8,266 9,542
Please note: This page is interactive and is best viewed as a downloaded PDF on a desktop computer
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2022 9
Thriving workplace continued
Key: 2022 data has been subject to Independent Limited Assurance
AS
Thriving workplace continued by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, please refer to page 43 of this
supplement. See our 2020 and 2021 supplement for the prior
performance period and assurance by PricewaterhouseCoopers
Category Unit 2022 2021 2020 Notes LLP. Please refer to the Methodologies and data criteria section of
this supplement for further details of how we have prepared our
2022 data.
Employees – miscellaneous
Average absence per employee days 11.1 12.4 10.1
Employee turnover % AS 11.4 9.8 8.1
Average length of service years 10.5 9.8 10.5
Pension participation % 92 93 93
Colleague engagement # 7.8 73 77
Employee learning
Training days days AS 100,411 48,701 61,398
Training days per employee days 5.4 2.7 2.9
Investment in training £m 8.6 10.4 8.1
Accidents at work
Minor accidents # 66 125 197
Accidents resulting in over seven days absence # 3 5 3
Major accidents # 2 6 5
Please note: This page is interactive and is best viewed as a downloaded PDF on a desktop computer
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2022 10
Better communities
Helping customers and we consider customer vulnerability in all that advice tailored to their circumstances and
Santander Foundation: Case Study
communities prosper we do; which includes designing inclusive provide the help they need. We also work with
products, communications, and ways to several organisations, like PayPlan, to help
bank with us. Additionally, in response to our customers with financial planning and to In 2022, The Santander Foundation
Our ambition the cost of living crisis, we have updated increase their financial resilience. awarded 13 new grants to UK-registered
Financial Inclusion is an increasingly the financial support pages on our website. charities as part of its Financial and Digital
important topic. It is therefore a key priority More information can be found in our For customers that find themselves deeply Empowerment Fund. This funding will
in our SRB strategy to support building Annual Report. entrenched in financial distress, dedicated benefit more than 60,000 people facing
better communities. Our Financial Inclusion and specialist customer support colleagues economic inequalities and disadvantages
strategy is designed to help people improve Supporting our customers through provide tailored solutions, not only to help deal over the next three years to develop their
their financial skills, gain access to financial financial difficulty with their current crisis but to support them to digital and financial skills.
services and develop financial resilience.
According to the Financial Conduct Authority bounce back to financial health.
Our financial inclusion working group is (FCA), before Covid-19 around 24 million One of the Foundation’s current funded
coordinating our approach and working to people in the UK displayed one or more signs The FCA has entrusted UK banks to meet partners is Leadership Through Sport
enhance collaboration across the organisation. of financial vulnerability. In response to this the higher standards that have been set and Business. This social mobility charity
We also focus on generating positive impact widespread vulnerability, we have mapped the for consumers in the new Consumer Duty. supports bright, disadvantaged young
in our communities, for example working support and initiatives we offer against different We continue to assess our products, services people into meaningful employment with
with our charity partner Macmillan Cancer customer profiles to determine how we can and the support we offer to our customers, major firms.
Support, supporting vulnerable customers,
help our customers more in an economy that is as well as their understanding, and measure
empowering students with our Santander constantly evolving. At the most basic level, all these against the new FCA regulation. With funding and learning support from
Universities programme and working with the bank account customers have access to our free the Santander Foundation, the charity
Santander Foundation. financial self-help tools, which are available Our financial inclusion strategy provides skills bootcamps, alongside
across all our communication channels. Our financial inclusion strategy sets out the pastoral support, access to a personal
Cost of living ambition for Santander UK to be financially mentor and digital equipment.
In the last year, a key focus has been
When we identify the early signs of financial inclusive; where caring and supporting
responding to the financial inclusion difficulties, such as missed payments, increases customers is at the heart of the guidance Their programme then transitions young
challenges facing our society and economy in overdrafts or reductions in savings levels, and education programmes we provide and people into paid apprenticeships to a
in the post-pandemic world. Rising costs are we start to pro actively engage with customers the portfolio of products and services we range of national and local employers
affecting consumers and business, and could to offer a variety of practical support measures. offer to customers whenever they need us. for a minimum of 12 months receiving
create new challenges for financial inclusion. We point them towards organisations that The strategy consists of three strategic pillars, at least the national living wage, whilst
With the rise in energy costs, more than can offer free and independent financial as outlined in the table on the next page. providing ongoing professional support.
half of UK households are expected to be in
fuel poverty by 2023. We are responding by As part of the Financial and Digital
developing a more comprehensive approach Our reporting on Better communities is split across our Annual Report and ESG Supplement. Empowerment Fund the charity has to
to communicating with and supporting our Information on the following topics can be found in the Sustainability review within our date supported 40 young people into
customers through these difficult times. Annual Report 2022. sustained employment.
– Cost of living – Ongoing non-financial – Santander Universities
This includes supporting our customers through – Financial inclusion support for SMEs – Charity Partnership: More information can be found in our
our financial education programmes, pro – Meeting our customers’ – Financial education Macmillan Cancer Support Annual Report.
actively engaging with customers displaying
changing needs – Santander Foundation – Ukraine support
early signs of financial difficulties, and ensuring
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2022 11
Better communities continued
Financial Inclusion strategy
Ambition: To be financially inclusive where caring and supporting customers is at the heart of the guidance and education programmes
we provide and the portfolio of products and services we offer to customers whenever they need us.
Strategic pillar 1 Strategic pillar 2 Strategic pillar 3
Financial Education and Knowledge Inclusive Portfolio of Products and Services Customer Care
Pillar objective: Ensure individuals and businesses across the UK improve their Pillar objective: Ensure the design of our solutions enables more individuals and Pillar objective: Ensure we support and care for our customers before and during
financial skills and access to our products and services through high quality education, businesses to access, at a fair price, the financial products, services, and support their times of need, pro actively engaging externally to gather insights on the
guidance and advice. As part of this pillar we have several headline initiatives. they need, and that they have the best chance of being in good financial health. financial challenges people face in the UK to inform our response as a bank.
The Numbers Game Supporting our vulnerable customers Early Intervention programme
The Numbers Game is our flagship financial education programme delivered with Our Vulnerable Customer strategy guides how we identify and support customers In 2022, we launched our Early Intervention programme designed to pro actively
Twinkl, the world’s biggest online education hub. It is designed to build children in vulnerable circumstances. identify customers who are showing signs of financial stress using internal and
and young people’s confidence in numbers and money. Upskilling our Financial Care Specialists is a key focus and has taken on even external data. Once identified we take customers through one of two distinct
In 2022, we developed fun and engaging digital learning packs with our greater significance given the current economic environment. We have provided journeys.
ambassadors Ant and Dec. The packs are designed to be used by teachers in additional training and guidance for colleagues dealing with customers – Directing them to our updated and improved Santander UK help and support
school or parents/guardians at home. The Numbers Game materials reached experiencing very difficult circumstances through our ‘we expect respect’ initiative. – Encouraging them to speak with PayPlan our preferred third-party partner for
over 1.3 million children and young people in 2022. This surpassed our goal of We have also improved our vulnerable customer insights, strengthening our independent financial and debt advice.
financially empowering 760,000 people during the year. Since 2019, we have understanding of the outcomes and customer satisfaction levels for vulnerable Mobile journey
helped over two million children and young adults with financial education. customers. This has provided reassurance that we are maintaining expected levels 60% of customers in Financial Support are digitally active. With this in mind, we
As part of our Group partnership with Ferrari, we also created learning packs on of satisfaction for vulnerable customers. have made it much easier for customers to access our financial self-help tools
STEM subjects (science, technology, engineering and maths) and sustainability. In May 2022, we improved our Supported Banking proposition, launching a new through our mobile banking app.
The packs were launched globally in multiple languages. partnership with legal services firm, Irwin Mitchell, who now offer our customers Improved website journeys
My Money Week services such as will writing, applying for probate and power of attorney. Using customer and colleague feedback we identified that the financial support
Santander continues to be a lead sponsor of My Money Week, Young Enterprise’s The partnership aims to empower our vulnerable customers with the right resources on our website were too broad and were difficult for our customers
flagship initiative. Each year My Money Week resources are distributed to schools information and professional support during important times in their lives. to access. Following principles of simplicity we made changes to improve our
across the UK giving students a valuable introduction to finance. The resources Helping customers who are at risk of financial harm through gambling remains customers’ online journey for the most widely-used resources. Once designed, the
are certified by Young Money, ensuring they meet the highest standards from the a focus area and we took a number of gambling-related initiatives in 2022. simplified pages were tested with customers before going live. The launch of the
UK regulator. This year, My Money Week has empowered 105,866 students with In September we enhanced our gambling block, which prevents gambling new pages coincided with customer engagement through our Early Intervention
financial education. transactions, adding a 48-hour delay when deactivating the block to help remove programme and has resulted in an almost 4,000% increase in visits to pages
Wise Sessions the immediate temptation to gamble. across our key customer journeys, such as our page on ways to cut spending and
Wise Sessions is an internal volunteering initiative for colleagues to help young Our Customer Support initiative encourages customers to disclose the support information about energy bills.
people to improve their skills and knowledge on money and work matters. they need to our colleagues. We have enhanced the initiative with easier digital
In 2022, our Wise Sessions reached more than 3,000 students across the UK. accessibility, greater use by specialist teams and a customer awareness campaign.
WorkWise sessions help young adults to prepare for job interviews and provide We remain committed to supporting customers who are victims of domestic,
key skills to help them find their first job. MoneyWise sessions provide financial economic and financial abuse and we are signatories to the industry Financial
information and support, which isn’t always on the curriculum in schools. Abuse code.
In 2022, our MoneyWise sessions for secondary schools were awarded a Our commitment to supporting vulnerable customers has been recognised
Financial Education Quality Mark from Young Money, meaning it is a recommended with certification to the new Inclusive Service Kitemark™ and compliance to the
financial education resource, assessed by independent experts. Looking ahead standard, BS ISO 22458 Consumer vulnerability – Requirements and guidelines for
we are aiming to gain the same quality mark for our primary school MoneyWise the design and delivery of inclusive service.
resources.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2022 12
Better communities continued
Key: 2022 data has been subject to Independent Limited Assurance
AS
Better communities by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, please refer to page 43 of this
supplement. See our 2020 and 2021 supplement for the prior
performance period and assurance by PricewaterhouseCoopers
Category Unit 2022 2021 2020 Notes LLP. Please refer to the Methodologies and data criteria section of
this supplement for further details of how we have prepared our
2022 data.
Customers
Active customers #million 14 14 14
Net Promoter Score (NPS) # 14.4 1.1 0.5
Customer complaints # 169,485 160,381 197,769
Number of branches # AS 449 450 564
Suppliers
Value of procurement £m 1,684 1,629 1,491
Suppliers # 949 992 1,256
Payment days beyond terms days 25 11 19
New SME contracts # 31 13 44
Value of new SME contracts £m 4.6 3.1 23.9
SME supplier contracts as % of total supplier contracts % 36 18 45
Communities
People Financially Empowered (cumulative) # 2,141,163 751,720 502,869
Other people supported # 20,282 21,082 26,352
Support for communities £m AS 10.1 12.81 15.62
1. This figure has been restated from £12,823,244 to £12,800,824 due to our updated methodology as our community agenda evovles. Please see basis of reporting for updated methodology.
2. T his figure has been restated from £15,997,588.77 to £15,583,399.65 due to our updated methodology as our community agenda evovles. Please see basis of reporting for
updated methodology.
Please note: This page is interactive and is best viewed as a downloaded PDF on a desktop computer
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2022 13
Better communities continued
Key: 2022 data has been subject to Independent Limited Assurance
AS
Better communities continued by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, please refer to page 43 of this
supplement. See our 2020 and 2021 supplement for the prior
performance period and assurance by PricewaterhouseCoopers
Category Unit 2022 2021 2020 Notes LLP. Please refer to the Methodologies and data criteria section of
this supplement for further details of how we have prepared our
2022 data.
Santander Foundation
Matched donations £ 625,579 450,218 509,319
Grants paid in year £ 0.9m 1.6m 3.0m
Value of grant commitments in year £m 2.47 3.45 3.5
Number of donations # 465 362 581
Volunteering
Staff volunteers # 709 464 2,591
Santander Universities
Value of donations and grants £m 8.1 9.2 10.0
University partners # 75 86 86
Total scholarships and awards # 8,130 10,225 10,249
Santander Breakthrough
Total investment £ 418,993 670,258 473,000
Total Breakthrough beneficiaries # 7,159 1,307 3,511
Please note: This page is interactive and is best viewed as a downloaded PDF on a desktop computer
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2022 14
Healthy environment
Fighting climate change and Ambition
supporting the green economy
Achieve net zero carbon emissions by 2050
Tackling Climate change
Our ambition
Climate change is one of the major challenges Three strategic focus areas
facing society today. At Santander UK we
recognise this and our goal is to support the
3. R educing emissions in our
UK in tackling climate change by supporting 1. Managing climate risks 2. Supporting customers
operations
our customers, colleagues and communities
transition to a low carbon, climate-resilient
economy. As a result, we are fully committed – Integrate climate considerations into – Support customers to grow and succeed – Review internal policies to
to Banco Santander’s ambition to achieve net risk management frameworks – Develop customer/client, sector and consider climate
zero carbon emissions by 2050, in line with the – Screen and stress test our portfolio to segment strategies to support and – Continuous improvement of ISO
Paris Climate Agreement. Description identify sector-specific transition and accelerate the transition to a zero certified environmental and energy
physical climate-related financial risks carbon economy management systems
Our reporting on tackling – Measure portfolio alignment and set – Create green products and services – Offset residual CO 2 emissions
climate change is split across our risk appetites to help steer our portfolios – Develop customer engagement plans – Create a green culture through
Annual Report and ESG Supplement. in line with the Paris Agreement. – Ensure strategies are inclusive and avoid employee engagement
We are fully committed to meeting
unintended social consequences. – Procure 100% green energy.
the requirements of the Taskforce on
Climate-related Financial Disclosures
(TCFD) and more information can be
Eight enablers
found in our Annual Report 2022,
Sustainability and Responsible Banking
(SRB) section. This includes details Governance and policies Target and KPIs Stakeholder management Competencies and skills
on our approach to climate change
Public policy, communication
in line with the four pillars of the External partnerships Reporting and disclosures Pricing and/or rewards
and brand
TCFD recommendations: Governance,
Strategy, Risk Management, and
Targets and metrics.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2022 15
Healthy environment continued
Climate Change strategy For more information on our Climate Change Our climate change governance framework
Our approach to climate change focuses on strategy, governance structures and the
three strategic areas that cover all the material work we are doing to meet our climate
aspects of climate change for Santander commitments, please see the TCFD section of Board Risk Committee Responsible Banking Committee
UK. The three pillars of our climate change our Annual Report 2022.
strategy are:
Financing the green transition
1. Managing climate risks by integrating The green transition to a low-carbon, climate- Executive Risk Control Committee Senior Management Committee
climate considerations into our risk resilient economy will require big changes
management frameworks and screening and to many aspects of society and business. Responsible for: climate change financial risks and Responsible for: assisting the Board in its aspiration
stress testing our portfolio for climate-related This change will require significant investment regulatory requirements (BoE, PRA, FCA) to be a responsible bank, including its approach to
ESG matters
financial risks. between now and 2050 to achieve net-zero
emissions and meet the goals of the Paris
2. Supporting our customers’ transition by Climate Agreement, in particular keeping
developing financial products and services global heating to a maximum of 1.5°C above
UK Climate Leadership Group
that help and encourage them to reduce pre-industrial levels. We undertook several
their carbon emissions and support climate initiatives that support financing the green Responsible for: overseeing the development and
change adaptation. transition in 2022, highlights of which are implementation of the UK Climate Change Strategy,
shown below. More details are also provided encompassing the three strategic focus areas and
eight enablers, including regulation and policy
3. Reducing emissions in our operations in the TCFD section of our 2022 Annual Report.
and supply chain by focusing on continuous
improvement in our operations, environmental Greener Homes Hub and the green home
management, procurement and improvement loan
Climate Change Risk Climate Finance Forum for
employee engagement. We launched the Greener Homes Hub to help
Working Group Working Group Environmental Change
existing and new Santander UK customers to
Supporting our strategy are eight enablers, learn more about making their homes more Responsible for: overseeing Responsible for: supporting Responsible for: reducing
including climate change training for energy efficient. The Hub provides access the management of climate risk customers’ transition to a low- emissions in our operations
in credit, market, liquidity and carbon economy with products in branches, offices and
employees and working with strategic to a free EnergyFact Report for customers
operations and services data centres
partners who can support us to achieve our with information on the energy efficiency of
Subgroup (x2): Scenario Working Groups (x3): Homes, Representation: Governance,
climate goals. their home and tips and guidance on how to
Analysis Working Group Consumer Finance and Corporate procurement, data, Go Green,
improve it. We also launched a new green and Steering Committee and Commercial Banking wellbeing and workplace,
Climate governance home improvement loan to support mortgage Sustainability and Responsible
We have a well-developed governance customers to reduce the energy consumption Banking
structure to oversee our approach to climate of their homes through retrofitting. The loan
change. Climate change risks and opportunities covers home improvements that increase
are assessed, managed and reported across energy efficiency and comes with a preferential
the entire organisation from the Board and interest rate compared to standard loans.
Executive level down.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2022 16
Healthy environment continued
Carbon footprint tracking for our retail start or accelerate their transition towards a
customers more sustainable, net-zero economy.
We conducted research to explore how we can
help to improve our customers’ awareness and Our sustainability-linked lending enables
understanding of how they can reduce their corporate clients to accelerate their
contribution to climate change, in order to help sustainability ambitions by aligning their
them transition to a low-carbon economy. sustainability commitments and targets to
The research shows that customers want their finances. In 2022 we participated in
help in this area, and to provide support we £590m of sustainability-linked financing in
will launch a carbon footprint tool in 2023 a variety of sectors in the UK. Examples of
through My Money Manager, our personal corporate clients’ targets that have been linked
finance management tool on the Santander to Santander UK financing include reducing
mobile app. The carbon footprint tool will Scope 1, 2 and 3 carbon emissions, enhancing
provide customers with their estimated carbon diversity and inclusion, improving community Financing Just Transition Alliance
footprint and also best practices on how to impact and improving operational waste
reduce their impact. and efficiency. We joined the Financing Just Transition Alliance (FJTA) in 2022, a coalition coordinated by London
School of Economics and the Grantham Research Institute for Environment and Climate Change.
Through our green and social lending
The FJTA has been launched to support the UK banking and financial sectors to consider the social
proposition we continue to support the
impact of their climate transition plans and to ensure implementation is just and equitable.
growing UK renewables industry, including the
battery storage sector. CCB has established
The FJTA identifies concrete steps to scale-up climate action that also delivers social value and
one of the market-leading positions in
makes sure no one is left behind. We have joined the FJTA not only to support our environmental
financing battery storage projects, providing
commitments but also to support other social commitments contained in our Sustainability and
more than £360m in funding to the sector
Responsible Banking strategy. Throughout the year we participated in working groups hosted by
since 2019. In 2022, we have also provided
FJTA with a particular focus on a fair transition in relation to the built environment.
£1.9bn in lending for social housing.
Investment in ESG assets
We currently hold around £0.6bn of ESG bonds roll out in 2022. We are implementing a
As part of Santander UK’s liquidity
issued by supranational entities that use the technology solution that will give better insight
management we have invested in ESG-
proceeds to fund green, social and sustainable into our suppliers’ climate impacts.
labelled liquid assets since 2014. Our objective
projects globally and our aim is to continue
Enhancing sustainable finance options for is to align our liquid asset buffer investing
supporting this asset class. These bonds are The Procurement team is helping to reduce our
our corporate clients approach to Santander UK and Group
labelled ESG in line with the ICMA principles emissions, working with suppliers and internal
Corporate and Commercial Banking (CCB) targets and guidelines on sustainability to
for Sustainability, Social and Green Bonds. stakeholders. In 2022, 60% of company cars
has expanded our sustainability lending further strengthen our green credentials.
were electric (including battery and plug in
proposition with the aim of supporting We recognise climate risk in our risk
Sustainable Procurement hybrid electric vehicles) and we set a new
businesses of all sizes and in all sectors to framework and therefore embed ESG
Tracking and reducing Scope 3 GHG emissions target to transition our car fleet to 100%
access sustainable finance. Our goal is to considerations in our liquidity investment
is a central priority in our new responsible electric, including Ultra Low Emission Vehicles
provide more opportunities for customers to decision making process.
procurement strategy, which we began to (ULEVs) by 2030.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2022 17
Healthy environment continued
Enhancing climate change awareness External collaborations and engagement
In 2022, training and awareness were top Tackling climate change requires active
priorities to help upskill colleagues on engagement and collaboration with
sustainability and climate change. Across CCB, multiple stakeholders. We work closely
Consumer Finance and Everyday Banking with government, regulators, academia,
colleagues received webinars and climate expert consultants, investors, customers,
awareness training. and our peers within industry groups. We are
continuously assessing external partners
We continue to provide climate training to and initiatives that can help us accelerate our
all staff through our internal training portal transition to net zero.
and Banco Santander’s partnership with the
Cambridge Institute for Sustainable Leadership. Engaging with UK Government on the
transition for UK financial sector
Built and provided by a third party, we In May, the Board-level Responsible Banking
Bringing sustainability into our new head office – Unity Place
launched a new learning platform, Committee (RBC) hosted a climate change
Sustainability Unlocked, in 2022. The platform workshop with the Rt Hon Alok Sharma MP,
We have been building Unity Place our new head office for over 2,500 colleagues since 2020.
provides informative and detailed COP26 President. The workshop discussed
Developed and designed by LOM, sustainability has been part of the design and construction
videos featuring experts from across the Santander UK’s progress towards our climate
since the beginning. When complete, the new building will be Building Research Establishment
sustainability field. From scientists to finance change goals and helping our customers and
Environmental Assessment Method (BREAAM) certified, demonstrating best practice in
industry leaders, these experts have shared communities to transition to a green economy.
sustainable building design, construction and operation.
their knowledge on what is needed to tackle A key focus was exploring opportunities for
the climate emergency and achieve a just UK Government policies to support the low-
The workspaces have been designed to be open and collaborative to encourage informal
transition. We are offering this platform to carbon transition for the built environment and
meetings. Milton Keynes University will occupy part of the office space, highlighting the close
2,000 colleagues with focus on our Risk and infrastructure for electric vehicles.
relationship Santander Universities maintains with academia.
CCB colleagues, who can access the platform
regardless of role and title. We believe we all Decarbonising Britain’s Homes – Buying into
The ground floor will provide retail space for businesses encouraging colleagues to learn
have a part to play in achieving a just transition. the Green Homes Revolution report
and engage with the local community. Sustainability measures at the site include rainwater
We launched a new report in 2022 exploring
harvesting, an estimated onsite generation of over 90,000KWh of solar electricity and
the retrofitting landscape in the UK. The report
independence from natural gas for heating through the installation of air source heat pumps.
uses in-depth research from consumers,
There will also be space to park 426 bicycles and 13 charging points for electric vehicles.
estate agents and mortgage brokers to review
the dynamics of retrofitting in the UK property
market and examine changing attitudes
To address these challenges Santander UK’s campaigns to offer guidance on upgrading
towards net zero among homeowners and
climate change and green mortgage experts properties; and, establishing the skills,
buyers. Our research finds that the majority
proposed a series of recommendations infrastructure and capacity to carry out
of consumers are not yet investing in home
including: how homeowners can be supported retrofitting at scale to meet future needs.
energy efficiency despite growing awareness
with financial incentives; national information
of its importance. The main barriers are cost or
perceived cost, and a lack of understanding or
guidance on retrofitting options.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2022 18
Healthy environment continued
Engaging with regulators on climate risk Santander UK overview of external partners and initiatives
The Climate Financial Risk Forum (CFRF) is a
joint venture between the Financial Conduct
Authority (FCA) and Prudential Regulatory
To support the Santander UK Climate Change strategy we have identified external partners and initiatives
Authority (PRA). It consists of three technical
*Group-led
working groups: data, disclosure and metrics;
scenario analysis; and, the transition to net
zero. We participate in the scenario analysis
working group, which published its third round Government and Industry Industry Strategic Academic Expert
Regulators
of scenario analysis guidance in December public policy – global – UK partners partners advisers
2022. The guidance sets out how firms can
approach identifying and quantifying risks
Bankers for Net Prudential *UN Environment UK Finance Countrywide *Cambridge Landmark
through climate scenario analysis. The working
Zero (B4NZ) Regulation Finance Initiative Sustainability EnergyFact Report Institute for Mortgage book
group has also released an online climate
All party Authority (PRA) (UNEPFI) Committee; ISSB; for mortgage Sustainable climate-related
scenario narrative tool which generates a parliamentary and Financial Net Zero Banking Green Finance customers Leadership data (including
summary narrative description of climate- group Fair Business Conduct Authority Alliance (NZBA); Strategy; Transition Banking on EPCs)
related risks and opportunities based on pre- Banking initiative (FCA) Collective and Task Force; National Parks UK Environment
selected inputs. and country chapter Climate Financial Commitment on Mortgages; SMEs; Founding member Initiative;
of NZBA Risk Forum (CFRF) Climate Action. and Climate Risk Net Zero with Sustainability
Scenario Analysis Nature (nature- Leadership Training;
Investor meetings Institute for Public Working Group *Taskforce for Green Finance based carbon Biodiversity
Our Sustainability and Responsible Banking Policy Research Nature-related Institute (GFI) credits) Working Group
and Investor Relations teams held ESG-related (IPPR) Bank of England Financial TNFD UK National
meetings and roundtables with investors. Plan for green Climate Biennial Disclosures (TNFD) Consulting Group; iOffset
retrofitting UK Exploratory Forum founding member Consumer Finance
For the first time, in 2022 we also provided
housing Scenario (CBES) Contributing to of Coalition for offsetting service
a sustainability update to our credit rating Climate Stress Test; the work of the Energy Efficiency of
agencies. These discussions focused on climate *Global Counsel Climate Roundtable Taskforce and TFND Buildings (CEEB)
risk, our net-zero ambition and methodology, ESG-related public framework
and analysis of climate-related risk on our policy monitoring Financing Just
Transition Alliance
UK mortgage book. We also expanded
(FJTA)
the ESG disclosures within our quarterly Industry initiative
Investor Update presentation and Quarterly coordinated by LSE
Management Statements. and the Grantham
Research Institute
for Environment
Industry Initiatives
and Climate Change
Banco Santander group and Santander UK for a Just Climate
engage with a range of stakeholders and Change Transition
are involved in a number of industry-wide
initiatives to advance the banking sector’s Partnership for
Carbon Accounting
response to climate risks and opportunities.
Financials (PCAF)
A summary is shown in the table opposite. UK coalition
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2022 19
Healthy environment continued
Key: 2022 data has been subject to Independent Limited Assurance
AS
Healthy environment by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, please refer to page 43 of this
supplement. See our 2020 and 2021 supplement for the prior
performance period and assurance by PricewaterhouseCoopers
Category Unit 2022 2021 2020 Notes LLP. Please refer to the Methodologies and data criteria section of
this supplement for further details of how we have prepared our
2022 data.
Energy use
Electricity kWh 80,791,655 88,824,038 94,424,732
Gas kWh 19,180,382 29,349,057 26,522,601
Oil kWh 924,651 353,160 463,594
Transport fuel used kWh 2,259,546 1,036,158 1,741,568
Total energy use kWh 103,156,234 119,562,413 123,152,495
Waste
Waste collected tonnes 1,910 2,315 2,857
Waste diverted from landfill tonnes 1,906 2,310 2,837
Waste diverted from landfill % 99.8 99.8 99.3
Paper use
Consumables kg 1,777 3,480 4,557
Total paper use kg 330,965 879,088 603,246
Financing
Green finance raised and facilitated according to the SFCS (total)* £m AS 6,523 3,967 1,268
Please note: This page is interactive and is best viewed as a downloaded PDF on a desktop computer
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2022 20
Healthy environment continued
Key: 2022 data has been subject to Independent Limited Assurance
AS
Healthy environment continued by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, please refer to page 43 of this
supplement. See our 2020 and 2021 supplement for the prior
performance period and assurance by PricewaterhouseCoopers
Category Unit 2022 2021 2020 Notes LLP. Please refer to the Methodologies and data criteria section of
this supplement for further details of how we have prepared our
2022 data.
Water use
Water m3 107,719 133,663 151,259
Travel
Air travel – domestic km 909,964 135,023 410,808
Air travel – short haul (Europe) km 1,667,309 300,396 1,221,192
Air travel – long haul (international) km 1,794,336 187,317 813,615
Car km 1,917,953 743,259 2,510,032
Rail km 399,499 66,354 1,645,205
Total travel km 7,735,762 1,432,349 6,600,852
Emissions
Scope 1 COe emissions tCOe AS 4,512 6,074 5,937
2 2
Scope 2 COe emissions: - – –
2
location based tCOe 15,624 18,860 22,014
2
market based tCOe AS 53 0 0
2
Scope 3 COe emissions (business travel only) tCOe AS 1,196 247 515
2 2
Total COe emissions tCOe AS 5,761 6,321 6,452
2 2
COe emissions per employee tCOe/FTE AS 0.31 0.35 0.31
2 2
Retired Verified Carbon Units # 5,695 6,321 6,452
Net emissions tCOe 0 0 0
2
Please note: This page is interactive and is best viewed as a downloaded PDF on a desktop computer
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2022 21
Being responsible, in everything we do
Our ambition external developments and legislative stronger and we took action to address our To respond to this risk, we created a new
This pillar is our foundation and we must get changes, making sure that we respond to how AML issues as soon as they were identified. consumer media relations campaign, Safe-
these basics right before we can excel in the they impact on our financial crime controls. We have since made significant changes to Tea, working with the celebrated drag queen,
first three pillars. High standards of ethics and Examples in 2022 include the Economic address this by overhauling our financial Victoria Scone. The campaign was designed to
integrity are the foundation to prosperous Crime (Sanctions and Enforcement) Act, the crime technology, systems and processes. raise awareness with 19 – 34 year olds of the
businesses and society. They are a clear Economic Crime & Corporate Transparency In the last five years alone we have invested dangers of impersonation scams. We used tea
priority in how customers choose their bank. Bill and recent changes to the UK Money over £700m in a major change programme to symbolise the importance of taking a break
We are committed to being a fair, transparent Laundering Regulations. which goes beyond the FCA’s findings to and thinking about who’s really making contact
and responsible bank. At the heart of this is fair transform our bank-wide financial crime and what action they are asking you to make.
treatment of our customers and we deal with Changes to global sanctions regimes continue control framework. We have over 4,400
any form of fraud against our customers or to add complexity to monitoring and managing people focused on preventing financial Raising scam awareness with the Bank
other financial crime as a priority. A key focus is compliance with our sanctions obligations. crime and have created an Anti-Financial of Antandec: We expanded our Bank of
raising customer awareness on financial crime. We continue to enhance our response and Crime Academy that provides content and Antandec marketing campaign with a new
We are also determined to uphold the highest have increased colleague numbers in this competency-based training and certification advert designed to help customers recognise
ethical standards in our operations, promote area. Mandatory economic crime training for all roles. We continue to invest in systems and avoid scams before they become a
human rights and ensure a responsible for all employees ensures our people have and people to ensure we keep our customers victim. The multi-channel campaign used TV
corporate culture. knowledge and understanding of emerging and the communities in which we operate safe. and radio adverts to reach a wide audience,
financial crime risks. More targeted and role- including those that don’t believe that they
specific training is delivered through our Anti- Measure 2022 will fall for scams. Our Stop and Think Fraud
Our reporting on ethical standards
Financial Crime Academy (AFCA). % of colleagues trained on anti-financial Banner was presented to customers within
and fighting financial crime is split 98%
crime (AFC) our Mobile app 11.5 million times and we sent
across our Annual Report and ESG
We remain committed to increasing awareness Number of colleagues who completed over 8 million emails with a dedicated fraud
Supplement. Information on the
of financial crime linked to environmental enhanced anti-bribery and corruption (ABC) 100% newsletter, resulting in more than 100,000
following topics can be found in the training
crimes, such as wildlife trafficking, illegal clicks to our fraud and scam webpages.
Sustainability review within our Annual Employees who completed enhanced AFC
logging and green-washing. 16,078
Report 2022 training
We also used social media influencers
Response to Anti-Money Laundering FCA Protecting our customers from fraud to appeal to two hard to reach customer
– Responsible lending
finding Protecting customers from fraud and scams segments, and content was viewed 25m times
– Economic crime
In December, we announced that we had is extremely important and in 2022 Santander by these groups. Additionally, videos with the
accepted the FCA’s findings relating to continued to raise awareness with customers campaign’s #StopScammerTime hashtag have
historical anti-money laundering (AML) and the general public in a variety of ways. been viewed 3.2bn times.
Focus on financial crime
controls in our Business Banking division
We have a comprehensive suite of financial
during the period 31 December 2012 – Preventing impersonation scams with Virtual scam awareness sessions: We
crime policies and standards in place, to ensure
18 October 2017. The findings included a ‘Safe-Tea’: Santander UK consumer research continued our virtual scam awareness sessions
that our approach reflects external obligations
penalty of £108m. We accept that our AML in 2022 showed that 58% of Britons have been for customers throughout 2022. The sessions
and is aligned to Group-wide requirements
framework at the time should have been targeted by an impersonation scammer and focus on general awareness of scams and
set by Banco Santander group. We monitor
that 65% of these felt the scammers were more than 129 people received the digitally-
convincing. Our data showed that in 2022, delivered training during the year.
11,752 cases of impersonation scams were
managed by Santander UK, totalling £45.8m.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2022 22
Being responsible, in everything we do continued
Using our digital channels for scam employees the national living wage where Humanitarian exceptions to Financial Data privacy and cyber security
warnings: With more and more customers they operate and, where applicable, the real Sanctions policy2: At Santander, we see With more and more customers adopting our
using digital banking, a particular area of living wage, for example, suppliers working sanctions legislation as absolute and have zero digital services, we need to ensure we deliver
focus is continuing to roll out enhanced fraud at our sites or providing dedicated services to tolerance for non-compliance. Updates to UK mobile and online products our customers can
controls and warnings across all of our digital Santander UK. sanctions legislation are swiftly incorporated trust. We aim to deliver a secure but seamless
channels, alerting customers to high-risk into our compliance processes. However, we experience for everyday digital banking and we
transactions at the point they make a payment. In addition, we have continued our work on acknowledge and want to support important have multiple layers of security beneath the
supplier risk mapping with Stop the Traffik humanitarian work taking place globally. As a digital interface our customers experience.
Ethical supply chain to identify suppliers that present the highest result, we review on a case-by-case basis
We want to do business with companies risk of modern slavery. This improves our banking transactions relating to humanitarian Our global resilience framework protects
who share our values. Our standard supplier understanding of the human rights risk profile activity in areas where financial sanctions all of our online systems and the data and
contracts require suppliers to respect human of our suppliers based on their geography apply. We seek to support humanitarian causes information they store. The framework is
rights and ethical labour practices based on and sector. where possible in these situations whilst structured around the principles: defend,
the principles of the UN Global Compact. adhering to UK and Group policies and meeting anticipate, engage. It works to protect data
All suppliers also need to accept our Third- In 2022 we engaged an independent ethical our legal and regulatory obligations. assets, including customers’ data, by detecting,
Party Code of Conduct, which was updated in audit provider to complete audits on the responding and recovering from cyber security
2021 to reference climate change and invite higher-risk suppliers we have identified with Illegal Wildlife Trade: We are committed to threats. Our Data Protection policy and
suppliers to join our commitment to a low- Stop the Traffik. The comprehensive audits are fighting environmental crimes with a specific processes are updated regularly and cover
carbon economy. based on a newly-developed industry best focus on the illegal wildlife trade, especially how we collect, handle, store, share, use and
practice questionnaire and incorporate site with the UK Ivory Act coming into force in 2022, dispose of personal information. They also
We continue to enhance our third-party visits, policy and employment practice reviews, which is reflected in our Financial Crime policy set robust controls for third-party suppliers.
supplier assessment (TPSA) approach with and worker interviews. 12 audits are due for and standards. We tell our customers, our people and others
improved remote and on-site supplier completion in 2022 and early 2023. associated with us how we process their
assessments. In 2022, 32 suppliers went Cyber risk management personal data by giving them a data protection
through the TPSA. Each year we conduct a More information on our approach is provided Information and cyber security is a main statement. Compliance with data protection
risk assessment of our supplier base using our in our Modern Slavery Statement available on priority for Santander UK. In 2022, we laws is overseen by the Data Protection
inherent risk questionnaire. Suppliers deemed the Santander UK website. experienced no notable data or cyber Officer (DPO) who reports to the highest
critical and higher risk then pass through incidents. Externally, there were factors that management level.
the TPSA by completing our supplier Humanitarian focus increased the risk of cyber-attacks on financial
control questionnaire. Access to banking for resettled people: The services companies in the UK; a risk that is
external environment in 2022 has continued mirrored across all other sectors and countries.
We updated our supplier control questionnaire to shift quickly, with further civil and political We expect this risk to remain and continue
again in 2022 to maintain alignment to best volatility around the world. We engage with to monitor the cyber threat landscape.
practices, including reviewing suppliers’ industry peers, the UK Government and NGOs We carefully review and enhance our controls
Modern Slavery Statements and labour to develop our understanding of external based on this intelligence. We also work 1. Those seeking resettlement in the UK from any country
wishing to obtain banking products and services from
standards policies. We now request suppliers guidance in this area. This engagement has closely with peers and organisations across
Santander UK are reviewed on a case-by-case basis where
to ensure that temporary staff and employees informed our internal policy on providing the industry to share insights, intelligence and they do not meet our Financial Crime policy requirements.
of third-parties working for our suppliers are banking products and services to people experiences of cyber threats. This helps to 2. F inancial sanctions can be imposed or administered by a
vetted to the same standard as permanent seeking resettlement in the UK1. ensure effective mitigation strategies are in number of domestic and international authorities including
the UN Security Council, the European Union, Office of
staff. Suppliers are also asked to pay their place to protect our customers and business.
Financial Sanctions Implementation (a part of Her Majesty’s
Treasury), and overseas governments (e.g. USA).
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2022 23
2022 basis for reporting: principles and methodologies
This section explains our reporting criteria for data points contained within this ESG Supplement.
Overall reporting principles
Our performance metrics
1. Reporting boundaries
We report on the impact from operations
Thriving workplace Healthy environment within Santander UK Group Holdings unless
stated otherwise. We report on our material
People Environment sustainability/ESG topics where impacts are
material to Santander UK Group Holdings
Employees Energy use
and other stakeholders, such as Banco
Diversity Water use
Santander and third parties such as suppliers
Gender Waste and charities.
Turnover Paper use
2. Restatement of data
Employee learning Green finance
Data may be restated for previous years, for
Accidents at work Travel data example due to updated billing information.
Where this happens, we’ve made a note
Colleague engagement Emissions
alongside the data.
Scope 1, 2 and 3 and total emissions
CO2e emissions per person
Better communities
Retired verified carbon credits
Customers Net emissions
Suppliers
Communities
Being responsible, in everything we do
People supported
People Financially Empowered Percentage of colleagues trained on anti-financial crime
Santander Foundation Percentage of colleagues trained on anti-bribery and corruption
Volunteering Number completed enhanced fighting financial crime training
Santander Universities
Santander Breakthrough
Number of digital education sessions
Voice ID customers
Mobile app rating
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2022 24
2022 basis for reporting: principles and methodologies continued
Thriving workplace
Category Definition Scope Units Method Source
People
Employees – Total number of full-time employees Santander UK HoldCo FTE that work 35 hours or Santander # Self-reported on Workday. Workday is our new people analytics platform Workday
Number (FTE) and part-time employees (PTE). UK PTE that work less than 35 hours (excludes UK offshore provided bt Workday. This has taken over from Oracle Peoplesoft.
employees).
Employees – Total number of employees in different Santander UK HoldCo employees that have declared their # Self-reported on Workday. All employees can update their ethnicity at any point. Workday
Diversity Minority Ethnic Groups. ethnicity in Black, Asian, or Other Minority Ethnic Groups. Santander does not validate employee claims of their ethnicity.
Based on voluntary disclosures, with exclusions of prefer
not to say and unspecified.
Employees – Male/female representation across Total number of Santander UK HoldCo employees that have # Self-reported on Workday. All employees can update their gender at any point. Workday
Gender different categories of employees, declared their gender as male or female. Only includes Santander does not validate employee claims of their gender.
including Executive employees that have declared their gender.
and Non-Executive Board Directors. Data excludes ‘prefer not to say’ and ‘no data’ responses.
Employees – Total attrition/turnover percentage for Permanent contract Santander UK HoldCo employees. % Attrition/turnover calculation is the total number of permanent contract leavers Workday
Turnover permanent contract Santander UK staff. in the rolling 12-month period to the end of the previous month, divided by Oracle PeopleSoft
the average permanent contract headcount in the same period (exclusions
include: end of fixed-term contract, transfers, severance and redundancy/early
retirement).
Total Training Days Total and average days spent on training Santander UK HoldCo employees. # All online training time carried out on LMS is recorded through the Cornerstone
by employees. system.
Training is defined as all types of training Online day courses are estimated at four hours per course and face-to-face/
that are on the Learning Management one-day courses are estimated as seven hours, as LMS does not record physical
System (LMS). These include: events, time spent training. This includes events, external content, and sessions.
external content, online courses, Estimated time is based on class setup time, and course design.
sessions, tests and videos (exclusions The dates cover when the learning and evaluation have been completed and
are any third-party arranged trainings). training can be done as many times as desired by employees. Therefore, in some
cases (typically instructor led and some e-learnings), a training will be counted in
the following year if that is when the evaluation was completed.
Investment in training includes all third-party spend included in
account codes for specialist training, study expenses, venue costs
and external training courses.
Pension Percentage of employees participating Santander UK HoldCo employees. % Report run from internal HR systems. Workday
participation in Santander UK pension scheme. Oracle PeopleSoft
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2022 25
2022 basis for reporting: principles and methodologies continued
Thriving workplace continued
Category Definition Scope Units Method Source
People continued
Accidents at work Data comprises all accidents recorded in Santander UK # Each accident record is reviewed and marked according to the severity noted. Oracle PeopleSoft
our HR online accident reporting tool. Accidents defined as major, minor or resulting in a seven-day absence according to (until 21/02/22)
health and safety legislation. HR accident data is collated quarterly. Oracle Service Cloud
(21/02/22 – 08/09/22)
ServiceNow
(from 09/09/22)
Colleague The metric is an overall employee Santander UK % Your Say, is Santander UK’s continuous listening survey which is hosted by the Workday Peakon
engagement engagement score which demonstrates Workday Peakon platform. It gathers employees’ feedback on our culture in real
the extent to which our employees feel time through monthly surveys. This new employee listening strategy launched in
committed to working at Santander December 2021 and replaces the annual Global Engagement Survey. Employees
UK, are enthusiastic about their work are asked to provide a score out of ten in response to a range of questions about
and the organisation, and whether they their experience working for Santander (0 = Not at all, 10 = Absolutely). The
would speak highly of us externally. engagement score is the average score given by employees in response to the
The engagement score represents the following five questions:
average of Santander UK colleagues’
scores in response to engagement – How likely is it you would recommend Santander as a place to work?
questions from our continuous listening – I feel proud to work for Santander?
survey Your Say, which all employees – If you were offered the same job at another organisation, how likely is it you
are asked to take part in every month. would stay at Santander?
– How likely is it you would recommend Santander’s products or services to
friends and family?
– Overall, how satisfied are you working at Santander?
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2022 26
2022 basis for reporting: principles and methodologies continued
Better communities
Category Definition Scope Units Method Source
Customers
Number of active Active customers are defined as those Santander UK # Active customer numbers extracted from relevant internal systems. Oracle Essbas
customers having an open account with more than
a set minimum balance, along with
certain specified transactions in the prior
month.
Net Promoter NPS measures customer advocacy and Main retail banking customers for Santander UK and key # We measure the main banking NPS of 5,760 consumers on a six-monthly basis Ipsos MORI
Score (NPS) predicts business growth. This metric competitors. using a 11-point scale (%Top2 – %Bottom 7).
is our core measure for customer The latest reported data is based on the six months ending 31/08/2022. The
experience. competitor set we monitor to benchmark ourselves against includes Barclays,
Halifax, HSBC, Lloyds Bank, Nationwide, NatWest, TSB and RBS.
Our customer experience research is independently audited by Striga.
Customer Reportable customer complaints All complaints received during 2022 that meet the FCA # Data from all source systems is queried to identify all complaints received during Internal systems
complaints received during 2022 as defined by the reporting requirements. the reporting period. Any potential exclusions are manually
Financial Conduct Authority. sample-checked to validate that they can be removed from the return.
The annual figure is an aggregation of the H1 and H2 2022 Santander
UK FCA returns.
Number of A branch is a retail location where we There are no specific exclusions to the data provided and all # Data is validated against existing monthly reporting within the Retail Finance and SAS
branches offer a wide array of face-to-face and open operational branches are included in the year-end figure. Analytics department.
automated services to our customers.
Suppliers
Value of The dataset includes the amount paid to All Santander UK suppliers paid through SAP. (Excludes £m Supplier spend data is extracted from SAP and exclusion criteria applied SAP/ GESBAN Payment
procurement Santander UK third-party suppliers. Estates suppliers and intermediaries, and suppliers not and checked. Report
set up through the Santander UK procurement process).
Number of The data includes a count of all active All active Santander UK third-party suppliers (excludes # Using the supplier list extracted from SAP and provided by Aquanima, SAP/ GESBAN Payment
suppliers Santander UK third-party suppliers. Estates suppliers and intermediaries; and suppliers not a filter is placed on ‘supplier numbers’ and active status. After applying filters, a Report
set up through the Santander UK procurement process). count is carried out on the remaining number of suppliers.
Payment days Days beyond terms (DBT) is a Data includes financial information regarding Santander UK plc days Data is provided by third-party provider Experian. Experian – Limited
beyond term commonly-used business credit term as per submitted financial accounts and figures. A single day Company Gold Report
that indicates how long metric is provided for the Santander UK plc with a comparison
a business has taken to pay its invoices against an industry average.
beyond the agreed payment terms.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2022 27
2022 basis for reporting: principles and methodologies continued
Better communities continued
Category Definition Scope Units Method Source
Suppliers continued
New SME contracts Total number of suppliers onboarded All newly onboarded suppliers within the reporting year # Suppliers categorised SME are cross-checked against (a) self-declared SAP, FSQS
within the reported year that have that fit the SME criteria (excludes Estates suppliers and information or (b) data sourced from third-parties on SME employee numbers and
been identified as a Small to Medium Intermediaries; and suppliers not set up through the Santander turnover.
Enterprise (SME). SMEs are defined as UK procurement process).
having less than 250 employees and
£10m in annual turnover.
Value of SME Total value of suppliers onboarded Value of all newly onboarded suppliers each year within £m Suppliers categorised SMEs, as described above in New SME contracts. SAP, FSQS, Aquanima
contracts within the reported year that have been Santander UK (see number of suppliers) that fit the SME criteria The total value is determined in one of two ways for all suppliers that meet the
identified as a SME. (excludes Estates suppliers and intermediaries; and suppliers criteria stated above:
not set up through the Santander UK procurement process).
1. If the SME was onboarded because of a tender/negotiation the Total Award
Amount is taken from Aquanima’s Negotiation Reports
2. Where a SME was not onboarded because of a tender/negotiation, the total
invoice value paid to the SME is taken for the year using data derived from SAP.
% of contracts Percentage of suppliers onboarded All newly onboarded suppliers each year within Santander UK % Suppliers identified as described above in New SME contracts. SAP; FSQS
with SMEs within the reported year that have been (see number of suppliers) that fit the SME criteria. (Excludes All suppliers that meet the criteria stated above are filtered and a total count is
identified as a SME. Estates suppliers and Intermediaries; and suppliers not set taken. This total count is then divided by the total number of suppliers onboarded
up through the Santander UK procurement process.) within the reported year. The result is then expressed as a percentage.
Communities
People Financially Number of people, mostly unbanked, In 2022, nine initiatives were considered: # Report on the number of individual beneficiaries from different initiatives Internal databases
Empowered underbanked or in a situation of 1. Financial education provided by Santander UK colleagues delivered or sponsored by Santander UK that provide access, tailored financial and supplier reports
vulnerability who, through our products through WorkWise and MoneyWise sessions to students solutions and resilience.
and services and social investment and young people
initiatives are able to get
2. Financial education provided by Young Enterprise to
access to the financial system, receive
children and young people through My Money Week
tailored finance and increase their
knowledge and resilience through 3. Financial education provided by The Numbers Game
financial education. working with Twinkl
This metric only considers initiatives and 4. Support provided by Money Advice Trust
beneficiaries where Santander UK has 5. Support provided to vulnerable customers by the Specialist
gone beyond what is mandated by the Support team
regulator, and as it is cumulative it only
6. Support provided by Stepchange
considers beneficiaries once in the 2019
– 2025 period. 7. Support provided by PayPlan
8. Support provided by Christians Against Poverty
9. Support provided to customers in arrears, where we have
enabled them to come out of arrears via self service tools
or direct colleague support.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2022 28
2022 basis for reporting: principles and methodologies continued
Better communities continued
Category Definition Scope Units Method Source
Communities continued
Support for Total monies donated and spent on Total spend across the following: £m In 2022 we updated our methodology to reflect our evolving approach to Santander Foundation
Communities community programmes and initiatives. 1. Santander Foundation (2022 matched donations community investment. Please note that donations and strategic sponsorship reports; bank’s payments
Programmes and initiatives are agreed and grants) amounts made by the Sustainability and Responsible Banking team only consider system and manual
and signed off with Finance Business direct community impact amounts. Therefore, we will exclude payments in respect monthly reconciliation
2. Universities (total donations made in 2022 for 75 university
Partners and Executive Committee of memberships, sponsorship of events or services provided (such as setting up aligned to Finance’s
partners, including 2021 accruals)
volunteering opportunities for colleagues across Santander UK) by charitable monthly report
3. Breakthrough (2022 Breakthrough & additional partners in our figures. As this has been a change in methodology, figures from Salesforce
SME investment) 2021 and 2020 have been restated.
4. Sustainability and Responsible Banking spend (2022 CSR Spend across the highlighted programmes is calculated and totalled to give
programmes and memberships spend). Excluded: internal, one overall community investment figure. University spend is calculated as
operational spend improving internal processes, hosting payments made in 2022 (this includes accruals from 2021). Santander Foundation,
and security for website. Breakthrough, Sustainability and Responsible Banking and SFS amounts are
calculated as spend budgeted and committed from 2022 budgets. Community
investment accruals from 2022 into 2023 are excluded from our reported figures
and will be included in our 2023 reports.
All donations are approved by the Anti-Bribery and Corruption Department, and
any donations that are 50,000 Euros (~£41,709 as the exchange rate of February
2023) and above, are approved by Banco Santander group. Non-donations such as
membership spend or Breakthrough investment are agreed with Finance Business
Partners and the Executive Committee at the start of each calendar year. The total
community investment figure is notified to the Sustainability and Responsible
Banking team.
Santander Santander Foundation grants awarded Number of grants donated in 2022. £ Santander Foundation report. Santander Foundation
Foundation grants in 2022. report
Matched donations Value of donations approved and paid Santander Foundation matched donations programme. £ Value of donations approved and paid by the Santander Foundation. External supplier database
by the Santander Foundation. report
Volunteering Number of colleagues volunteering This data comprises number of colleagues that volunteered # Report on the number of individual beneficiaries from different initiatives Internal database
and number of people helped with the in the community via opportunities linked to our volunteering delivered or sponsored by Santander UK that provide support to those in and supplier reports
activities. strategy. the community.
Santander Total donations through our Universities Spend includes the total donations paid in 2022, including 2021 £m Manual monthly reconciliation. Salesforce
Universities programme in 2022. accruals paid in 2022.
Santander Number of businesses (customers and Breakthrough-led and Breakthrough-supported specific # Delegate registrations where available (limited), web-traffic data, Web traffic statistics,
Breakthrough prospects) benefiting from support to Business Banking and the Corporate and Commercial Bank. direct beneficiaries where available. event registration, direct
delivered digitally throughout 2022. programme beneficiaries
No face-to-face activity was held in the
time period.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2022 29
2022 basis for reporting: principles and methodologies continued
Better communities continued
Category Definition Scope Units Method Source
Communities continued
Number of Beneficiaries of digital education Includes beneficiaries from Explore Digital sessions delivered by # Collated through supplier reports. Teacher-headcount of students per session. Supplier reports
digital education initiatives sponsored by Santander UK We Are Digital and GoDigital delivered by Age UK.
beneficiaries in 2022.
Voice ID Number of customers in 2022 enrolling Voice ID is available to Santander UK HoldCo retail banking # Enrolment data is captured via a dashboard which counts the number Internal systems
registrations for Voice ID which enables them to use customers – currently on Banking, Savings, Select, Digital of enrolments at daily, weekly and monthly intervals.
biometrics to authenticate when they Helpdesk and Credit card-lines.
call Santander UK HoldCo.
Healthy environment
Category Definition Scope Units Method Source
Environment
Energy use Billed consumption of grid electricity, Santander UK HoldCo estate: Large offices, small offices, Carlton kWh Emissions derived from consumption are converted using Government Supplier invoices
mains gas, oil and associated emissions. Park data centres, retail branches and emissions from business Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (BEIS) conversion factors. and meter readings
travel by road. Electricity: external supplier invoices validated against consumption data
– Grid electricity: Kilowatt-hour (kWh)
gained direct from smart meters (remote dial-up). Estimations used to calculate
and tonnes of CO2 equivalent (tCO2e)
electricty consumption.
– Mains gas: kWh and tCO2e
Gas: external supplier invoices validated against consumption data gained direct
– Oil: kWh and tCO2e
from smart meters (remote dial-up).
– Business travel: Kilometres, kWh
and tCO2e Oil: manual meter readings taken on sites.
Business travel: records for the distance travelled by road is extracted from
relevant internal systems or provided by the third-party travel admin operator.
Kilometres travelled is then converted into energy (kWh).
Water use Mains water use: cubic metres (m3) Santander UK estate: Large offices, small offices, Carlton Park m3 Metered mains water use determined from external supplier invoices. Supplier invoices
consumed. data centres, retail branches (grouped).
Waste Waste produced. Santander UK estate: Large offices, small offices, Carlton Park Tonnes Data is provided by waste suppliers and uploaded to a centralised database. This Supplier reports
Waste diverted from landfill. data centres, retail branches (grouped). centralised database is then subject to further processing into the necessary
categories for monitoring and reporting purposes.
Percentage of waste diverted
from landfill.
Paper use Weight of paper used in our operations All entities within Santander UK, including branches. kg Information is provided by third-party suppliers of print and stationery who Third-party reports
categorised by plain paper, envelopes, source paper for Santander UK.
and cardboard.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2022 30
2022 basis for reporting: principles and methodologies continued
Healthy environment continued
Category Definition Scope Units Method Source
Environment continued
Green finance Includes Santander UK’s contribution Santander UK; currently covering new business mortgage £m In all cases we use the business-as-usual lending platforms to report against this Mortgages: Completions
raised and to green finance either facilitated to finance to properties with an EPC rating of A and B, Structured metric and the strong governance criteria for green lending following the SFCS. data comes direct from
facilitated (total) customers (e.g. lending and facilitating and Project Finance within Corporate and Commercial Banking Analysis is conducted to identify the deals that fit within the definitions of the our core mortgage
through capital markets) or raised (e.g. (CCB); financing for renewable energy installations and other SFCS. platform (SANMF). Oracle,
bond issuance). This metric measures green energy solutions (including lending and other facilities Solar BI. Landmark data
our activity towards our strategic such as potential future exposure); and, Santander Consumer is used to match EPC data
goal to help customers transition to Finance electric vehicles and other green vehicles including to mortgage completions
a low-carbon economy. To identify bicycles and e-bikes. and is completed twice
business that can contribute to this a year; at half year and
metric, we follow the Santander year end. Landmark data
Sustainable Finance Classification is dependent on when the
System (SFCS), which provides a updated data is available
common understanding of what can from the relevant UK
be considered as green finance. For Government website, in
example: mortgages to properties with 2022 the last update was
an EPC rating of A and B; financing for in September. Although
renewable energy installations and it is possible that EPC
other green energy solutions (including ratings have changed
lending and other facilities such as since September 2022
potential future exposure); electric (higher or lower) this is
vehicles and other green vehicles, likely to only impact new
among other financing. build properties where no
previous EPCs
are available.
CCB: manually maintained
spreadsheets by the team
with responsibility for
green lending.
Consumer Finance: CAP
HPI automotive industry
data used to identify
green vehicles. For
motorbike emisions the
dealerships determine
what fuel type they each
have and then only fully
electric motorbikes will be
considered.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2022 31
2022 basis for reporting: principles and methodologies continued
Healthy environment continued
Category Definition Scope Units Method Source
Environment continued
Travel Total business travel in kilometres (km) Santander UK estate, including offices and retail branches. tCO2e Data is made up of total km travelled by employees across our Head
and associated CO2e emissions. Excludes home workers and employees based at Offices and retail branches using various means of travel and the
business centres. converted CO2e figure using UK Government Department for Business, Energy and
Industrial Strategy (BEIS) conversion factors. The total figure is then reported each
year. Flight data is provided by the third-party provider on a monthly basis.
Scope 1 emissions Direct emissions from owned or Scope 1 emissions encompass gas, oil, direct transport, tCO2e Consumption and transport data is extracted from relevant source systems and Billing invoices,
controlled sources. and fugitive gas emissions. Excludes emissions from records. Emissions calculated for gas, oil, direct travel, and fugitive gases using meter readings, mileage
home working. the relevant UK Government Department for Business, Energy and Industrial claims, maintenance
Strategy (BEIS) conversion factors and collated into a total Scope 1 emissions records
figure. Santander UK HoldCo uses a third-party provider to collate environmental
data to calculate Scope 1 emissions for the reporting period.
Scope 2 emissions Indirect emissions from owned or Scope 2 emissions encompass purchased electricity (and tCO2e Consumption and travel data (for electric fleet/cars) is extracted from relevant Billing invoices,
controlled sources. electric fleet/company cars). Market-based measurement source systems/records. Indirect emissions are calculated using the relevant mileage claims
reflecting the emissions for the electricity we have purchased UK Government Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy
via our green tariffs. Our electricity is generated via green (BEIS) conversion factors and guidance. This is collated into a total Scope 2
sources including biomass and wind generation. Excludes emissions figure. Where billing data is not available estimations are being used.
emissions from home working. Assumptions were applied for the total 2022 electricity usage for Santander
Financial Services plc (SFS) based on actual reported usage where monthly billing
invoices were not available in time for this report. Santander UK HoldCo uses a
third-party provider to collate environmental data to calculate Scope 2 indirect
emissions for the reporting period.
Scope 3 CO2e Other indirect emissions in our value Scope 3 emissions encompass indirect business travel tCO2e Business travel (air, rail and road) records extracted from relevant internal Mileage claims, third-party
emissions chain. emissions via road, air, and rail. systems or provided by the third-party travel admin operator. The travel is then travel reports. Certify,
(business travel converted into carbon emissions using relevant conversion factors from UK Agito. Financial reports
only) Government Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (BEIS) and
collated into a total Scope 3 emissions figure. Car figures are based on engine size,
flight figures are based on average cabin seat class and rail figures are based on
national rail conversion factor. Distances travelled for SFS are being estimated
for each transport mode. Transport for SFS included flights and train journeys
performed in the reporting period. Santander UK HoldCo uses a third-party
provider to collate travel data to calculate Scope 3 indirect emissions business
travel for the reporting period.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2022 32
2022 basis for reporting: principles and methodologies continued
Healthy environment continued
Category Definition Scope Units Method Source
Total CO2e Total reported emissions in 2022, As defined above. tCO2e Summation of Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions. Scope 1, 2, and 3
emissions incorporating Scope 1, Scope 2 emissions, incorporating
(market-based) and Scope 3 market-based
(business travel only) emissions. Scope 2 emissions
CO2e per person Emissions per employee (intensity ratio). Total CO2e emissions (as defined above) divided by total full- tCO2e Total emissions in 2022 divided by full-time equivalent employees Total CO2e emissions
time employee equivalent numbers in Santander UK HoldCo per FTE in Santander UK HoldCo reported in this ESG Supplement. calculations, FTE Data (HR)
Retired Verified Retirement of certified carbon units by As defined in Scope 1, 2 and 3. VCU Verified carbon units purchased under the Reducing Emissions from Deforestation Verra VCS certification
Carbon Units Santander UK plc. and Forest Degradation (REDD) scheme. for 2022
Net CO2e emissions Net CO2e emissions in Santander UK tCO2e Total CO2e emissions incorporating our retirement of VCUs.
operations accounting for retired VCUs.
Being responsible, in everything we do
Category Definition Scope Units Method Source
Anti-financial crime Completion of fighting financial crime Santander UK. The data comprises of the number/ percentage # Report from internal systems based on completion. LMS (Cornerstone), People
and anti-bribery mandatory training. Covers anti-money of colleagues that have acquired successful completion of the Data is held on a dashboard by Learning and Development. Analytics Sharepoint
and corruption laundering, anti-bribery and corruption, assessment (80% pass rate).
training counter terrorist financing, facilitation of
tax evasion, human trafficking,
and sanctions.
Enhanced training Completion of fighting financial crime Priority audiences as determined by the business or the Anti # Report from internal systems. LMS (Cornerstone), People
enhanced training. This is enhanced Financial Crime Academy (AFCA) using data from learning needs Analytics Sharepoint
learning for a select audience analysis, business unit risk assessments and skills matrix.
covering a particular topic/s relevant
to their role. The data comprises the
successful completion of the learning
and if applicable the accompanying
assessment.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2022 33
Our contribution to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs)
Key SDGs
UN SDG Key SDG targets Key highlight Our commitment and contribution
– By 2030, eliminate gender disparities in education 1.3m – Our work with our partner Twinkl has been successful this year. – In 2022 the Santander Foundation awarded £1.85m to 13 charities
and ensure equal access to all levels of education Through our flagship financial education programme, The Numbers as part of its Financial and Digital Empowerment Fund. These new
and vocational training for the vulnerable, Game, we reached more than 1.3 million children and young people partners will receive grants ranging from £125,000 to £150,000
children and
including persons with disabilities, indigenous with financial education resources in 2022. These are distributed over the next three years to deliver services that will empower
peoples and children in vulnerable situations. young people virtually and can be accessed by parents and school teachers alike. people with the skills, support and confidence needed to improve
Goal 4 – By 2030, ensure that all youth and a substantial financially Our work with Young Enterprise has also been very impactful this digital and financial capabilities
Quality proportion of adults, both men and women, empowered year empowering over 105,000 school children through the My – Our bold plan to promote lifelong learning aims to support 1 million
achieve literacy and numeracy skills. through the Money Week initiative. adults to develop of new skills. The launch of our new online
education Numbers Game – In 2022 Santander Universities launched its new scholarship, skills Learning Room will help people already in the workplace to access
and entrepreneurship programme designed to fuel the success of information and materials they need to learn new skills.
a new generations of university students from underrepresented
groups. In 2022 we provided more than 8,000 scholarships
and awards.
– Take immediate and effective measures to 7,159 – Customer engagement was delivered at a greater scale in 2022 as – We continue to enhance our third-party supplier assessment (TPSA)
eradicate forced labour, end modern slavery and the cost of living challenges emerged. We saw an increase in the approach with improved remote and on-site supplier assessments.
human trafficking and secure the prohibition and number of customers being supported through on-demand content In 2022, 32 suppliers went through the TPSA. We updated our
SME’s and
elimination of the worst forms of child labour, as well as our ongoing face-to-face activities. supplier control questionnaire again in 2022 to maintain alignment
including recruitment and use of child soldiers, entrepreneurs – We continued our work on supplier risk mapping with Stop to best practices, including reviewing suppliers’ Modern Slavery
Goal 8 and by 2025 end child labour in all its forms. supported the Traffik. We engaged an independent ethical audit provider Statements and labour standards policies. We now request
Decent work – Strengthen the capacity of domestic financial through to complete audits on high-risk suppliers we have identified. suppliers to ensure that temporary staff and employees of third-
institutions to encourage and expand access to Breakthrough The comprehensive audits are based on an industry best practice parties working for our suppliers are vetted to the same standard as
and economic banking, insurance and financial services for all. questionnaire, site visits, policy and employment practice reviews, permanent staff.
growth and worker interviews. 12 audits are due for completion in 2022 and
early 2023.
– Adopt policies, especially fiscal, wage and social Top – Our aim is to be a place where all our people feel they belong and – Santander UK is proud to be recognised as a Top Employer and we
protection policies, and progressively achieve are supported to succeed. We want to provide a workplace with a are accredited as one of the UK’s Best Workplaces, Best Workplaces
greater equality. responsible culture where anyone and everyone can learn and grow for Women and Best Workplaces for Wellbeing by Great Place To
– Improve the regulation and monitoring of global 10% while being themselves Through our Everyday Inclusion Strategy, Work. This year saw us achieve a long-term ambition of appearing
financial markets and institutions and strengthen we aim to be a truly inclusive and diverse organisation; one that in the top 100 of Stonewall’s Workplace Equality Index for the first
Goal 10 the implementation of such regulations. for the question “A reflects the customers and communities we serve. Our annual Pay time. We entered the ranking at number 86 and hold a Gold Award
Reduced diverse workforce Gap report (available online) gives more details on progress towards for our commitment to LGBTQ+ inclusion.
our goal of belonging.
inequalities is a clear priority
for Santander”
– Integrate climate change measures into national £6.5bn – We undertook several initiatives that support financing the green – Corporate and Commercial banking (CCB) expanded their
policies, strategies and planning. transition in 2022, highlights of which include launching our Greener sustainability lending proposition with the aim of supporting
– Improve education, awareness-raising and human provided for Homes Hub to help existing and new Santander UK customers businesses of all sizes and in all sectors to access sustainable
a m n i d ti g in a s t t io it n u , t a io d n a a p l t c a a t p io a n c , i t im y o p n a c c t l i r m ed a u te c t c i h o a n n a g n e d projects and t T o h l e e H ar u n b m pr o o r v e i d a e b s o u ac t c m es a s k i t n o g a t f h r e e i e r h E o n m er e g s y F m a o ct r e R e e p n o e r r t g t y o e c ffi u c s i t e o n m t. e rs fi cl n ie a n n t c s e t . o O a u c r c S e u le s r ta a i t n e a t b h i e li i t r y s L u i s n t k a e in d a L b e i n lit d y in a g m e b n i a ti b o l n e s s b c y o r a p li o g r n a i t n e g their
Goal 13 early warning. activities classified with information on energy efficiency their home and tips and sustainability commitments and targets to their finances. In 2022
Climate as green guidance on how to improve it. we participated in £590 million of sustainability-linked financing in a
– We conducted research to explore how we can help to improve our variety of sectors in the UK.
action customers’ awareness and understanding of how they can reduce – To improve sustainability knowledge and skills in the business, our
their contribution to climate change, in order to help them transition Sustainability Business Partners and colleagues in key functions
to a low-carbon economy. We will be launching a carbon footprint undertook sustainability training courses adapted to their technical
tool in 2023 through My Money Manager, our personal finance needs in 2022. These include courses from the Chartered Banker
management tool on the Santander mobile app. Institute, and the Cambridge Institute for Sustainability Leadership.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2022 34
GRI Index and SASB
Key: GRI SASB
We report in accordance with the Reporting standards Our reporting also considers the SASB* We will continue to enhance our reporting
‘core’ option for disclosure for the As we develop our ESG reporting, we take Sustainability Accounting Standards Board based on common frameworks and
into account developments of standards and (SASB) material issues for the categories collaborate with standard setting bodies.
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) common practice. In particular, we’ve worked ‘Commercial Banks’, ‘Consumer Finance’ and
and use SASB* materiality and this year to continue our voluntary preparation ‘Mortgage Finance’. These material issues For more information on each topic, please
of the GRI Standards: Core option, detailed align with the topics covered in our reporting refer to the references in the table below.
indicators where appropriate. in the tables below with references across and cover business ethics; data security;
our reporting. physical impacts of climate change; access
and affordability; employee engagement, and
diversity and inclusion.
Disclosure Description Notes Reference
GRI 2 General Disclosures 2021
Organisational Profile
Disclosure 2-1 Organisational details Annual Report 2022, ‘About this report’, page 0
Annual Report 2022, Strategic Report, page 3
Disclosure 2-2 Entities included in the organisation’s sustainability reporting Annual Report 2022, ‘About this report’, page 0
Disclosure 2-3 Reporting period, frequency and contact point With regards to contact point, please refer to Annual Report 2022, ‘About this report’, page 0
www.santander.co.uk/about-santander/investor-relations
Disclosure 2-4 Restatements of information ESG Supplement 2022, page 24
Disclosure 2-5 External assurance ESG Supplement 2022, page 43-44
Activities and workers
Disclosure 2-6 Activities, value chain and other business relationships Annual Report, Above this report, page 0
Annual Report, Strategic report, page 1, 4-9, 13, 15, 25-32
ESG Supplement 2022, page 22
Disclosure 2-7 Employees Breakdown by region is not reported Annual Report, Strategic report, page 2
ESG Supplement, page 9, 22
Disclosure 2-8 Workers who are not employees Not reported
Governance
Disclosure 2-9 Governance structure and composition Annual Report, Sustainability and Responsible Banking, page 40-41
Annual Report, Governance, page 58-60
Disclosure 2-10 Nomination and selection of the highest governance body Annual Report, Governance, page 60, 62-63
Disclosure 2-11 Chair of the highest governance body Annual Report, Governance, page 60
Disclosure 2-12 Role of the highest governance body in overseeing the management of Annual Report, Governance, page 58-59, 64-73
impacts
Disclosure 2-13 Delegation of responsibility for managing impacts Annual Report, Sustainability and Responsible Banking, page 40-41
Annual Report, Governance, page 58-59
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2022 35
GRI Index and SASB continued
Key: GRI SASB
Disclosure Description Notes Reference
GRI 2 General Disclosures 2021 continued
Disclosure 2-14 Role of the highest governance body in sustainability reporting Annual Report, Sustainability and Responsible Banking, page 40-41
Annual Report, Governance, page 74-75
Disclosure 2-15 Conflicts of interest Annual Report, Governance, page 60, 63
Disclosure 2-16 Communication of critical concerns Annual Report, Governance, page 64-68
Disclosure 2-17 Collective knowledge of the highest governance body Annual Report, Sustainability and Responsible Banking, page 41
Annual Report, Governance, page 63, 74-75
ESG Supplement 2022, page 16, 19, 34
Disclosure 2-18 Evaluation of the performance of the highest governance body Annual Report, Chair’s Report on corporate governance, page 58-61
Disclosure 2-19 Remuneration policies Annual Report, Board Remuneration Committee Chair’s report,
page 76-84
Disclosure 2-20 Process to determine remuneration Annual Report, Board Remuneration Committee Chair’s report,
page 76-84
Disclosure 2-21 Annual total compensation ratio Annual Report, Board Remuneration Committee Chair’s report,
page 83
Strategy, policies and practices
Disclosure 2-22 Statement on sustainable development strategy Annual Report, Strategic Report, Chair’s Statement, page 4-5
CEO Review, page 6-9
Disclosure 2-23 Policy commitments Annual Report, Sustainability and Responsible Banking, page 30
Disclosure 2-24 Embedding policy commitments Annual Report, Sustainability and Responsible Banking, page 30-33
Disclosure 2-25 Processes to remediate negative impacts Not reported
Disclosure 2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising concerns Annual Report, Strategic Review, page 30
Disclosure 2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations Annual Report, Strategic Report, page 9
Annual Report, Board Audit Committee Chair’s report, page 69-71
Annual Report, Financial Statements, page 231, 237, 251
Disclosure 2-28 Membership associations Annual Report, Strategic Review, page 23-28
Stakeholder engagement
Disclosure 2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement Annual Report, Strategic Review, page 1, 13, 24-29
Disclosure 2-30 Collective bargaining agreements Annual Report, Remuneration implementation report, page 82
ESG Supplement, page 8
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2022 36
GRI Index and SASB continued
Key: GRI SASB
Disclosure Description Notes Reference
GRI 3 Material Topics 2021
Disclosure 3-1 Process to determine material topics Annual Report, Sustainable and Responsible Banking, page 34, 40-41
Disclosure 3-2 List of material topics Annual Report, Sustainability and Responsible Banking, page 34
GRI 3 Material Topics 2021 continued
Climate Change: Own Operational Footprint, Climate Risk Management and Portfolio Alignment to Net-Zero
Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics Annual Report, TCFD, page 39-48, 49-50
ESG Supplement, page 15-19
GRI 305: Emissions
Disclosure 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Annual Report, TCFD, page 56
ESG Supplement, page 21, 32
Disclosure 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Annual Report, TCFD, page 56
ESG Supplement, page 21, 32
Disclosure 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Annual Report, TCFD, page 56
ESG Supplement, page 21, 32
Disclosure 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Annual Report, TCFD, page 56
ESG Supplement, page 21, 33
GRI 201: Economic Impact
Disclosure 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate Annual Report, TCFD, page 43-48
change ESG Supplement, page 15-18
Mortgage Finance SASB
Physical Impacts of Environmental Risk to Mortgaged Properties Annual Report, TCFD, page 54-55
Climate Change
Financial Inclusion and Empowerment
GRI 3 Material Topics 2021
Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics Annual Report, Strategic Report, page 8
Sustainability and Responsible Banking, page 23-24, 33, 37
ESG Supplement, page 11-12
Commercial Banks SASB
Access and Financial inclusion and capacity building Information on financial inclusion is referenced but granular data Annual Report, Sustainability and Responsible Banking,
Affordability is excluded from these reports page 24, 27, 33, 37
ESG Supplement, page 11-12
Diversity and Inclusion
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2022 37
GRI Index and SASB continued
Key: GRI SASB
Disclosure Description Notes Reference
GRI 3 Material Topics 2021
Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics Annual Report, Strategic Report, page 26
Annual Report, Governance, page 63
Annual Report, Responsible Banking Committee Chair’s report,
page 75
Annual Report, Board Remuneration Committee Chair’s Report,
page 77
Annual Report, Remuneration Policy report, page 78-84
GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity
Disclosure 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Annual Report, Board Nomination Committee Chair’s Report,
page 75-80
ESG Supplement, page 9, 25
Disclosure 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Everyday Inclusion and Pay Gap Report 2022
Employee Wellbeing and Talent
Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics Annual Report, Strategic Report, page 8, 17, 26
Annual Report, Governance, page 59, 75
ESG Supplement, page 4, 7-8
GRI 404: Training and Education
Disclosure 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Data is available per days as opposed to per hours ESG Supplement, page 10
Disclosure 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs Annual Report, Strategic Review, page 26, 28, 35
Annual Report, TCFD, page 41, 43
ESG Supplement, page 4-5, 16, 19, 22
Disclosure 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career Not reported
development reviews
GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety
Disclosure 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system Not externally reported
GRI 401: Employment
Disclosure 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to Not reported
temporary or part-time employees
Business Resilience
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2022 38
GRI Index and SASB continued
Key: GRI SASB
Disclosure Description Notes Reference
GRI 3 Material Topics 2021
Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics Annual Report, TCFD, page 38-39
Ethics and Compliance
Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics Annual Report, Strategic Review, page 28-29, 30
Annual Report, Sustainability and Responsible Banking, page 33
Annual Report, Board Audit Committee, page 73
Annual Report, Director’s report, page 88-89
GRI 419: Socioeconomic compliance (Now titled Disclosure 2-27)
Disclosure 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area Annual Report, Strategic Report, page 9
Annual Report, Board Audit Committee Chair’s Report, page 69-71
Annual Report, Financial Statements, page 231, 237, 251
GRI 419: Socioeconomic compliance (Now titled Disclosure 2-27) continued
Commercial Banks SASB
Business Ethics Business Ethics Annual Report, Strategic Report, page 9
Annual Report, Board Audit Committee Chair’s Report, page 69-71
Annual Report, Financial Statements, page 231, 237, 251
Sustainable Finance
GRI 3 Material Topics 2021
Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics Annual Report, Strategic Report, page 8, 28, 37
Annual Report, TCFD, page 41, 46-47, 50, 53
ESG Supplement, page 6, 17, 31
Commercial Banks SASB
Commercial Banks Incorporation of ESG Factors in Credit Analysis Annual Report, TCFD, page 48
SASB
Commercial Banks SASB
Consumer Finance Selling Practices Annual Report, TCFD, page 48
SASB
Mortgage Finance SASB
Mortgage Finance Selling Practices and Product Labelling Annual Report, TCFD, page 48
SASB
Innovation and Digitalisation & Privacy, Data Protection and Cyber Security
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2022 39
GRI Index and SASB continued
Key: GRI SASB
Disclosure Description Notes Reference
GRI 3 Material Topics 2021
Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics Annual Report, Strategic Report, page 4, 6, 17, 24-25
Annual Report, Governance, page 61, 66
Annual Report, Risk review, page 168
GRI 418: Customer Privacy
Disclosure 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and Annual Report, Strategic Report, page 17
losses of customer data Annual Report, Risk Review, page 169
Commercial Banks SASB
Data security Data security Annual Report, Strategic Review, page 17
Annual Report, Risk Review, page 168
ESG Supplement, page 22-23
GRI 418: Customer Privacy continued
Consumer Finance SASB
Data security Data security Annual Report, Strategic Review, page 17
Annual Report, Risk Review, page 168
ESG Supplement, page 22-23
Customer Privacy Customer Privacy Annual Report, Strategic Review, page 17
Annual Report, Risk Review, page 168
ESG Supplement, page 22-23
Organisational culture and governance
GRI 3 Material Topics 2021
Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics Annual Report, Strategic Review, page 12, 26, 30
Annual Report, Sustainability and Responsible Banking,
page 33, 36
Annual Report, Governance, page 59, 61-63, 73-75
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2022 40
GRI Index and SASB continued
Key: GRI SASB
Disclosure Description Notes Reference
GRI 205: Anti-Corruption
Disclosure 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks Annual Report, Governance, page 88, 91
related to corruption currently not disclosed Annual Report, Risk Review, page 172-173
Disclosure 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies Annual Report, Strategic Review, page 28, 30
and procedures ESG Supplement, page 22, 29, 33
Disclosure 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and steps taken Annual Report, Risk Review, page 172-173
GRI 412: Human Rights (Now incorporated into universal standards)
Disclosure 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures Not reported
Commercial Banks SASB
Systemic Risk Systemic Risk Management Annual Report, Governance, page 58-59
Management Annual Report, Risk review, page 76, 91-175
Reputation as a responsible bank
GRI 3 Material Topics 2021
Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics Annual Report, Sustainability and Responsible Banking, page 38-39
ESG Supplement, page 2-6
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2022 41
Directors’ Statement
Directors’ Statement on – established objective reporting criteria for
Santander UK Group Holdings preparing and presenting the Subject Matter
Information, including clear definition of
plc’s selected information the entity’s organisational boundaries, and
within the Sustainability & applied them consistently;
– presented information, including the
Responsible Banking Section of
reporting criteria, in a manner that
the Annual Report and Accounts provides relevant, complete, reliable,
unbiased/neutral, comparable and
(“ARA”) and the Environment,
understandable information;
Social and Governance (“ESG”) – reported the Subject Matter Information in
Supplement for the year ended accordance with the reporting criteria.
31 December 2022 Interim Director of Corporate Communications
& Responsible Banking
As the directors’ of Santander UK Group
Holdings plc (“Santander”) we confirm that we Stewart Todd
are solely responsible for the preparation of
selected information within the Sustainability
& Responsible Banking Section of the ARA
and the ESG Supplement for the year ended For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
31 December 2022 including this Directors’ of Santander UK Group Holdings plc
Statement and for reporting the selected
information in accordance with the reporting 1 March 2023
criteria set out on pages 24 to 33.
We confirm, to the best of our knowledge
and belief, that we have:
– designed, implemented and maintained
internal controls and processes over
information relevant to the measurement,
evaluation and preparation of the Subject
Matter Information that is free from material
misstatement, whether due to fraud
or error;
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2022 42
Assurance opinion
Independent Limited Assurance Our limited assurance conclusion Non-financial performance information is
Subject Matter Unit/ Performance
Report to the Directors of Based on the procedures we have performed, Measure in 2022 subject to more inherent limitations than
as described under the ‘Summary of work financial information, given the characteristics
Asian, Black and FTE 3,359
Santander UK Group Holdings performed as the basis for our limited Minority Ethnic of the underlying subject matter and
plc on selected information assurance conclusion’ and the evidence we employees the methods used for determining such
have obtained, nothing has come to our Female employees FTE 10,187 information. The precision of different
within the Sustainability & attention that causes us to believe that the measurement techniques may also vary.
Male employees FTE 8,562
Responsible Banking Section of Subject Matter Information marked with the
symbol ‘AS’ in Santander’s ESG Supplement Employee turnover % 11.4 Responsibilities of Santander’s directors
the Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2022, has Training days Days 100,411 As explained in the Directors’ Statement on
(“ARA”) and the Environment, not been prepared, in all material respects, in Number of branches # 449 page 42 of the ESG Supplement 2022, the
accordance with the Reporting Criteria set out Directors of Santander are responsible for:
Social and Governance (“ESG”) on pages 24 to 33 of the ESG Supplement and Green finance raised and £m 6,523 – determining appropriate reporting topics
facilitated according to
Supplement for the year ended referenced in the ‘Subject Matter Information the SFCS (total) and selecting or establishing suitable criteria
and Reporting Criteria’ section below. for measuring or evaluating the underlying
31 December 2022. Scope 1 CO2e emissions tCO 2 e 4,512
subject matter;
The Board of Directors of Santander UK Group a S n u d b j R ec e t p M or a ti t n te g r C In ri f t o e r r m ia ation ( S m co a p rk e e 2 t b CO as 2 e e d e ) missions tCO 2 e 53 – ensuring that those criteria are relevant and
appropriate to Santander and the intended
Holdings plc (“Santander”) engaged us to The Subject Matter Information needs to Scope 3 CO2e emissions tCO
2
e 1,196
users of the Reports;
obtain limited assurance on the selected be read and understood together with the (business travel only)
information within the Sustainability & Reporting Criteria, which Santander is solely Total CO2e emissions tCO
2
e 5,761 – the preparation of the Subject Matter
Responsible Banking Section of the Annual responsible for selecting and applying. Information in accordance with the
Report and Accounts (“ARA”) and the The Subject Matter Information and the p CO er 2 e e m em pl i o ss y i e o e ns tCO 2 e/FTE 0.31 Reporting Criteria including designing,
Environment, Social and Governance (“ESG”) Reporting Criteria are as set out in the implementing and maintaining systems,
Support for £m 10.1
Supplement (together the “Subject Matter next column: communities processes and internal controls over
Information”) as defined below and marked information relevant to the evaluation
with the symbol ‘AS’ in Santander’s ESG The Reporting Criteria: 2022 basis for Inherent limitations or measurement of the Subject Matter
Supplement for the year ended 31 December reporting: principles and methodologies on The absence of a significant body of Information, which is free from material
2022 (together the “Reports”). pages 24 to 33 of Santander’s ESG Supplement established practice on which to draw misstatement, whether due to fraud or error,
for the year ended 31 December 20221. to evaluate and measure non-financial against the Reporting Criteria; and
Our assurance conclusion does not extend to information allows for different, but – producing the Reports, including underlying
information in respect of earlier periods or to acceptable, evaluation and measurement information and a statement of Directors’
1. The maintenance and integrity of Santander’s website
any other information included in, or linked is the responsibility of the Directors; the work carried out techniques that can affect comparability responsibility, which provides accurate,
from, the Reports. by us does not involve consideration of these matters and, between entities and over time. balanced reflection of Santander’s
accordingly, we accept no responsibility for any changes performance in this area and discloses, with
that may have occurred to the reported Subject Matter
supporting rationale, matters relevant to the
Information or Reporting Criteria when presented on
Santander’s website. intended users of the Reports.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2022 43
Assurance opinion continued
Our responsibilities We apply International Standard on Quality Our procedures did not include evaluating the Information or a material misstatement of
We are responsible for: Control (UK) 1 and accordingly maintain a suitability of design or operating effectiveness the other information, and to take appropriate
– planning and performing the engagement comprehensive system of quality control of control activities, testing the data on actions in the circumstances.
to obtain limited assurance about whether including documented policies and which the estimates are based or separately
the Subject Matter Information is free from procedures regarding compliance with ethical developing our own estimates against which to Use and distribution of our report
material misstatement, whether due to requirements, professional standards and evaluate Santander’s estimates. This report, including our conclusion, has been
fraud or error; applicable legal and regulatory requirements. prepared solely for the Board of Directors of
The procedures performed in a limited Santander in accordance with the agreement
– forming an independent conclusion, based
Summary of work performed as the assurance engagement vary in nature and between us dated 28 November 2022 (the
on the procedures we have performed and
basis for our assurance conclusion timing from, and are less in extent than “agreement”). Our report must not be made
the evidence we have obtained; and
In carrying out our limited assurance for, a reasonable assurance engagement. available to any other party save as set
– reporting our conclusion to the Directors engagement we: Consequently, the level of assurance obtained out in the agreement. To the fullest extent
of Santander. – considered the suitability in the in a limited assurance engagement is permitted by law, we do not accept or assume
circumstances of Santander’s use of the substantially lower than the assurance that responsibility or liability to anyone other than
Professional standards applied Reporting Criteria, as the basis for preparing would have been obtained had a reasonable the Board of Directors and Santander for our
We performed a limited assurance the Subject Matter Information; assurance engagement been performed. work or this report except where terms are
engagement in accordance with International expressly agreed between us in writing.
Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 – through inquiries with Santander’s Other information
(Revised) ‘Assurance Engagements other management, obtained an understanding of The other information comprises all of the
than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Santander’s control environment, processes information in the Reports other than the
Information’ and, in respect of the greenhouse and systems relevant to the preparation of Subject Matter Information and our limited
gas emissions, in accordance with International the Subject Matter Information; assurance report. The directors are responsible PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Standard on Assurance Engagements 3410 – evaluated whether Santander’s methods for for the other information and the Subject Chartered Accountants
‘Assurance engagements on greenhouse developing estimates are appropriate and Matter Information. As explained above, our London
gas statements’, issued by the International had been consistently applied; assurance conclusion does not extend to the 1 March 2023
Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. – performed limited substantive testing other information and, accordingly, we do
on a selective basis of the Subject Matter not express any form of assurance thereon.
Our independence and quality control Information at corporate head office to In connection with our assurance of the Subject
We have complied with the Institute of check that underlying information had Matter Information, our responsibility is to
Chartered Accountants in England and Wales been appropriately evaluated or measured, read the other information and, in doing so,
Code of Ethics, which includes independence recorded, collated and reported; consider whether the other information is
and other requirements founded on materially inconsistent with the Subject Matter
– performed analytical procedures by
fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, Information or our knowledge obtained during
comparing related performance for
professional competence and due care, the assurance engagement, or otherwise
the Subject Matter Information to the
confidentiality and professional behaviour, that appears to contain a material misstatement
prior period reported performance and
are at least as demanding as the applicable of fact. If we identify an apparent material
made inquiries of management to obtain
provisions of the International Ethics Standards inconsistency or material misstatement of
explanations for significant differences we
Board for Accountants International Code of fact, we are required to perform procedures
identified; and
Ethics for Professional Accountants (including to conclude whether there is a material
International Independence Standards). – considered the disclosure and presentation misstatement of the Subject Matter
of the Subject Matter Information.
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2022 44
Read more
For more information visit
www.santandersustainability.co.uk
Annual Report 2022
www.santander.co.uk/about-santander/investor-relations/santander-uk-group-holdings-plc
Diversity
www.santander.com/en/careers/uk-careers/we-care-about-you/diversity-inclusion
Taxation strategy
www.santander.co.uk/about-santander/investor-relations/taxation-strategy
Modern slavery statement
www.santander.co.uk/about-santander/investor-relations/modern-slavery-statement
Environment policy statement
https://www.santandersustainability.co.uk/sites/default/files/2022-08/EnvironmentalPolicyStatement.pdf
Santander UK Group Holdings plc ESG Supplement 2022 45