Sustainability Report 2018
Santander UK Group Holdings plc
Contents
Important information
for readers
Santander UK Group Holdings plc (the Company)
and its subsidiaries (collectively Santander UK or
the Santander UK group) operate primarily in the
UK, and are part of Banco Santander (comprising
Banco Santander SA and its subsidiaries). Santander
UK plc is regulated by the UK Prudential Regulation
Authority (PRA) and the Financial Conduct Authority
(FCA) and certain other companies within the
Santander UK group are regulated by the FCA.
3 Message from our Chair, Shriti Vadera
Message from our Chair,
Shriti Vadera
Sustainability must be at the heart of every We are committed to achieve this goal at
competitive business strategy, as it is for us Santander UK, and our second, stand-alone
at Santander UK. We want to build resilience annual Sustainability Report is an important
for our bank, whilst shaping a responsible milestone for us. Last year, we launched a new
operating environment which will benefit our approach to sustainable reporting; completing
customers and industry as a whole. As a part a materiality matrix to identify our priorities to
of the UK’s financial and economic ecosystem, create a responsible business, and publishing
we know that taking a responsible, sustainable our first Sustainability Report which set out
approach can have far-reaching consequences; these findings and our future aspirations.
influencing our communities, customers, and
business supply chains.
This year, we have focused our attention
Multilateral initiatives such as the Sustainable
on the activities which the materiality
Development Goals and Paris Accord on Climate
Change, together with a wealth of research matrix clarified should generate inclusive
and consumer insight around the world, are
and sustainable growth for both our
transforming the way businesses determine
business and customers. I am particularly
and measure long-term value creation. There
committed to measures to improve financial
is also demand for greater transparency and
accountability from the financial community, so inclusion. Enabling every individual and all
that the people we serve can better understand
communities to understand, access and
and challenge our contribution to them as
gain from high-quality financial services is
individuals, as well as wider society. This means
core to our business and critical in creating
going beyond regulation and compliance, and
interrogating every aspect of our business stability and prosperity for all parts of
activity to demonstrate and quantify the value
our society. And while digital
of good business.
transformation can bring many benefits, we
also have a responsibility to ensure no one
is left behind.
4 Message from our Chair, Shriti Vadera
As is often said, we measure what we
value and we value what we measure.
A study conducted over twenty years
by Harvard Business School revealed
companies which report against
social and environmental issues
offer significantly higher returns on
investment1. Moreover, McKinsey has
found that a sustainable approach is
one the most important factors for
attracting and retaining employees2.
Good businesses know the long-term value
of fostering a healthy banking culture,
supporting small businesses to create jobs,
helping more people to access finance easily
and safely, and investing in the low carbon
economy. These are our strategic priorities,
and the data captured within this new report
will help us move towards and benchmark
a more holistic evaluation of our bank’s
economic and social contribution.
1 K han, M. Soon, Serafeim. (2015). Corporate Sustainability: First Evidence on Materiality. Cambridge: Harvard Business School. $1 investment in public companies
focused solely on growing, realised $14.46. $1 investment in companies focused on environmental and social issues whilst growing, realised $28.36.
2 McKinsey: Sustainability’s deepening imprint (December 2017).
5 Message from our Chair, Shriti Vadera
Message from our CEO,
Nathan Bostock
Our 2018 Sustainability Report is the Defining these priorities, as set-out in this
culmination of a great deal of work by teams report, is helping my Executive Committee
across Santander UK, and I am enormously team fully appreciate and focus on the key
proud of the progress which has been made. ways we will improve our triple bottom line;
Last year, we decided to take a different for people, planet and profit. Namely, the
approach to reporting in order to reflect the ‘virtuous circle’, whereby the products and
fact that sustainability is at the heart of every services which bring financial security and
good business decision and activity. prosperity to retail and business customers,
also generate greater resilience and
sustainable growth for our bank. Moreover,
As Chief Executive, I aim to ensure that
both the bank and its customers contribute to
our priorities deliver long-term value our communities; supporting supply-chains of
small businesses and other consumers.
for our business, the customers we
In particular, we want to harness new
serve and communities in which we
technology to bring genuine, inclusive benefit
operate. These segments are entirely
to our customers, including those with
interrelated, as it is simply not possible
particular vulnerabilities or needs. In 2018, we
to build sustainable success for one made a strategic choice of new Charity Partner:
the Alzheimer’s Society. Going forward, their
and not the others. Good business
knowledge and expertise will be invaluable
depends on a strong, healthy society
in helping our bank to meet a growing area
– and vice versa. This new report
of customer need through dementia-friendly
is helping our bank recognise the digital banking services.
reality of this for us; revealing that
all our business activity stems from
fundamentally sustainable priorities.
6 Message from our CEO, Nathan Bostock
Many retail customers are already Finally, we are pleased to be taking a
profiting from innovative, customer-centric more joined-up approach to climate risk
investments such as our Digital Investment management, by working closely across
Adviser, which gives individuals access industry and with other stakeholders. As
to quick, high-quality, and personalised a result of investment by Santander UK in
investment advice. This is ‘financial inclusion’ renewables in 2018, including solar, biomass
and ‘inclusive digitalisation’ at work; also and wind farms, we are proud to be joint-first
demonstrated by our new online mortgage in the UK league tables for renewable energy
hub, which is being used to renew and lending; critical in meeting our country’s
purchase around 55% of deals. In 2018, both ambitions for a low-carbon economy.
online and in branch, we supported 27,000
first time buyers.
It is paramount that we recognise and
Our business customers are also benefiting
from products such as our new 1I2I3 Business
measure the sustainable value of all
Current Account, which attracted over 6,000
these activities and more, in order to
new customers in its first three months. Our
make the right long-term investments
Breakthrough programme has provided
targeted advice, workshops and growth and be truly fit for the future. We
opportunities to thousands of start-ups and
want to help people and businesses
small businesses; including those supported
prosper, which is synonymous with a
through last year’s collaboration with the
sustainable agenda. Our new Report
British Library Business and Intellectual
Property Centre. Breakthrough also launched will help us take our next steps on this
our most ambitious Women Business Leaders’
important journey.
Mentoring Programme to date, supporting
female founders and company leaders across
the UK.
Meanwhile, our International team is opening
up new export markets to UK business,
through real and virtual trade missions,
webinars, inward trade visits, and tailored
research – including our Trade Barometer of
business attitudes and challenges.
7 Our business
Our business
Our culture is built on doing things The Santander Way Our business in 2018
We’re uniquely placed as a leading
Simple Personal Fair
scale challenger.
We offer our customers products that We treat our customers as valued We are open, honest and treat others
We have a simple and straightforward
are easy to understand and a service individuals, providing a professional as we would like to be treated. We
business model which focuses on retail and
which is convenient, no matter when service they can trust. We support our earn our investors a sustainable return
commercial banking customers.
or how they want to engage with us. colleagues to develop their skills and and do our part to support
We’re a large customer-focused bank and
We make our processes better so they achieve their ambition. our communities.
possess the scale and breadth of proposition
are easy and clear for our customers
to challenge the big four UK banks. With
and our people.
our omni-channel approach, we serve our
customers through digital channels, in
particular mobile, alongside a network of
“ It’s clear that environmental, social and governance factors directly affect our operating
branches and Corporate Business Centres all
environment and touch all areas of our business. With this report, we want to give transparency
supported by telephone call centres.
to our investors and stakeholders about the value we’re creating by acting responsibly.”
Antonio Roman, Chief Financial Officer, Executive Director, Santander UK
We’re aware of our important
role in the UK economy and in the
communities where we operate. We
help people purchase their home, save
for the future and support business
growth. We employ around 23,800
15 million 755 64 £199.9 billion
people and we paid £445 million
active UK customers branches3 Corporate Business customer loans
Centres
of corporation tax and £86 million
through the UK Bank Levy in 2018.
£172.1 billion 23,800 £445 million
customer deposits employees corporation tax paid
in 2018 3. As at 31 December 2018. Branches include 52 university branches.
4.8 rating for our £10.6 million invested Launched our Helped 27,000 first UK’s most resilient bank, Supported 7,900 start-
updated mobile app in training, focusing on Sustainability strategy, time home buyers with for the third year running ups and small businesses
on iOS app store. flexible learning and skills based on four mortgages, up 14%. in the PRA stress tests. with investment,
training, internships and
for the future. focus areas.
international exposure.
£38m of fraud prevented Introduced a unique Piloted our vulnerable Focused on a pipeline
through our involvement approach to tackling payment customers specialist of talent, placing for the
in the Banking Protocol. scams, providing guidance support service with over third year in a row as a
and cautions for customers 7,500 branch colleagues. Times Top 100 Graduate
making automated push Employer.
2018
payments.
HIGHLIGHTS
Reduced carbon emissions £3.2 million raised in Invested in small businesses We reached almost
by 11.5% year on year, three years for our charity with £20.7 million of growth 72,000 students, up by
focusing on remote working partners Age UK and capital funding and £100.7 87%, with educational
and meetings. Barnardo’s. million of senior debt. workshops on money
management, careers and
digital safety.
Launched Digital Investment Ranked as joint Top three UK bank based FRS reported that we ranked 478 businesses benefited Colleagues completed
Adviser, helping to make our first lender to on The Sunday Times Top second in retail customer from our events aimed at 56,000 volunteering
products accessible to all. renewables. 25 Best Companies to satisfaction4 on a rolling international growth. hours in 2018, a 30%
Work For 2018. 12-month basis at December increase from 2017.
2018, achieving our 2018
target.
4. Retail customer satisfaction as measured by the Financial Research Survey (FRS) run by Ipsos MORI. Please see Appendix 1
9 Our Sustainability strategy
Our Sustainability strategy
We recently embarked on an exciting journey to further embed
our purpose to help people and business prosper in every business
decision. With our new sustainability approach we seek to be a
responsible, ethical business across all our activities. Our values
should be reflected in everything we do, from the everyday
decisions we take to our long-term plans and goals.
Understanding our priorities Banco Santander
In 2018, we used artificial intelligence We’re part of a Group that is committed
to understand which social and to being a responsible bank, and aims
environmental topics are most important to tackle two key challenges.
to our customers, shareholders, people
1. T he banking environment:
and communities, and where we can
ensuring we have the right culture,
have a real impact.
skills, governance, digital and
We know that financial institutions have business practices to meet
an important role to play in addressing stakeholders’ expectations.
challenges such as financial crime and
2. I nclusive and sustainable growth:
financial inclusion, as well as broader
supporting small businesses to
systemic issues including the effect
create new jobs, helping people access
that technological change and climate
finance, contributing to the low carbon
change are having on our lives, our
economy and fostering sustainable
communities and our planet.
consumption.
The Sustainability report will cover our
O ur sustainability strategy will
priority areas, describing our ambition
enable our business to play its part in
and how we’re having an impact through
addressing these challenges. We are
case studies and examples.
fully aligned to the group priorities
and have a shared ambition to be a
responsible bank.
10 Our Sustainability strategy
Our sustainability approach sets a framework for action
around our material issues, under four main areas.
Creating a thriving Sustainable economic Inclusive digitalisation Upholding the highest
workplace growth and financial ethical standards and
We aim to use technology in a
inclusion way that creates value for all of fighting financial crime
We aim to create a thriving
our stakeholders and supports
workplace that attracts, retains
We want to deliver long lasting, Ethics and integrity are the
financial inclusion. Technology
and rewards the most talented
sustainable growth and positive foundation of a prosperous
should help simplify our
and committed people. Our
socio-economic impact not only business and society. We’re
processes, and make services
culture promotes diversity and
through our charitable giving determined to uphold the
more accessible and convenient.
inclusion, prioritises
and community programmes, highest ethical standards,
It is our responsibility to ensure
wellbeing and develops our
but also to our customers promote human rights and
best-in-class data security which
people’s skills.
through our business operations. responsible corporate culture.
will help us earn the trust of all
our stakeholders.
Delivering on our purpose of helping people and businesses
prosper and on our strategic priorities.
11 Our Sustainability strategy
Business strategic priorities 2016-2018
Grow customer loyalty and market share.
 “ I’m passionate about our Sustainability strategy and ambition for

Deliver operational and digital excellence. the future. We’re working hard to integrate this strategy across the


business, at every level and in every business decision. If we work
Achieve consistent, growing profitability and a strong balance sheet.


together, we can unlock the possibility of a better world.”
Live The Santander Way through our behaviours.


K eith Moor, Chief Marketing Officer, Santander UK
Support communities through skills, knowledge and innovation.


Main UN Sustainable Development Goals impacted by our strategy
Creating
a thriving
workplace
13 Creating a thriving workplace
Our ambition Context
Mental health at work
We want to create a thriving workplace
Studies5 have concluded that the UK faces a
that attracts, retains and rewards the most
significant mental health challenge at work.
talented and committed people. Our culture
There is a cost to large employers of over
promotes diversity and inclusion, prioritises
£33 billion per year, but more importantly a
wellbeing and develops our people’s skills.
significant human impact. Businesses have
an important role to play in promoting health
What this means for us
and wellbeing in the workplace.
We know that talented people want to work for
Skills for the future
companies that act responsibly and are driven
by a purpose that goes beyond profits. Likewise, The banking industry is facing unprecedented
we want to be a company of choice for people change in the way we serve and interact
who share our values and passion for helping with our customers, driven by advances in
people and businesses prosper. technology. From a cultural perspective this
means we need to plan carefully to ensure we
We want to create a bank that is representative
are clear about the roles and skills we need for
of the society we operate in and where all
the future. The development of our colleagues
employees can have a voice and are able
and how we manage our talent is key to
to bring their true selves to work. Where
helping them meet these challenges.
our people feel comfortable, confident and
empowered no matter their age, race, religion,
gender, sexuality, ethnicity or disability.
“ Investing in our people allows us
Our culture of Simple, Personal and Fair is
to be fit for the future with skilled
underpinned by our nine behaviours, enabling
and engaged colleagues who
our colleagues to thrive and provide great
outcomes for our customers. can truly thrive at Santander. We
continue to focus on creating a
great place to work”
Vicky Wallis, Chief HR Officer, Santander UK
5. Thriving at Work: a review of mental health and employers, Lord Dennis Stevenson and Paul Farmer, 2017.
14 Creating a thriving workplace
Attracting and
rewarding talent
Reward
We provide our people with a competitive
package of pay and benefits, to reward them
We’ve delivered ‘WorkWise’ sessions to over for their individual contribution to the business
Emerging talent
and our sustainable performance. In 2018,
8,300 students in schools and colleges across
Our support of apprenticeships has
35% of our people participated in one or
the UK, an increase of 158% on 2017. These
continued to expand and in 2018 we had
both of our two HMRC-approved all employee
over 500 apprentices across 15 different sessions help students consider the different
share schemes and 88% of our people
schemes which cover a range of levels up
participated in our pension schemes.
routes to employment, and develop CV
to degree level programmes.
We are a Living Wage and London Living
and interview skills. We provided 200 work
Wage employer. We have strategic
experience opportunities in 2018, including
relationships with Advance and the
Over 500
supporting social mobility with partners Communication Workers Union (CWU),
apprenticeships
our two recognised trade unions.
Career Ready and National Citizen Service.
in 2018
We also have over 200 graduates on 88%
programmes across the bank. We have of our people participated
in our pension scheme
been ranked for the third year in a row as a
Times Top 100 Graduate Employer.
During 2018 we continued to expand
200
our ‘Emerging Talent’ programme which
work experience
supports local schools and colleges,
opportunities in 2018
helping identify and develop new talent.
158%
more Workwise
sessions delivered
compared with 2017
15 Creating a thriving workplace
Skills for the future
We remain passionate about equipping
our people with the skills they need to
prosper in the future, and our Agile training
programme is helping us to achieve this.
We recognise there is a need to promote the
breadth of opportunities which are available
in our technology and cyber teams. In 2018
we partnered with the National Cyber Security
Centre and delivered our first Cyberfirst
event in Leicester. This was a one day course
delivered to more than 80 students aged 11
Investing in training
to 14; showcasing the varied roles and jobs
We have made a number of enhancements that use technology in the workplace, in order
to our learning content throughout 2018, to enthuse and inspire the participants.
with further improvements in plan for 2019.
Our strategy is to produce engaging and
motivational learning content, deliberately
moving towards high quality digital learning.
Investment in colleague training
In 2018, our people undertook 73,933
development days and we invested
2017 £8.8 million
£10.6 million, equipping them with
the skills they need for now and in the
2018 £10.6 million
future, including digital skills.
Million 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11
In order to maximise opportunities for our
(£)
people, new-to-role training in the retail bank
is now delivered through a Virtual Academies
programme. This approach means our people
no longer have to travel and spend time away
from home, but instead can learn new roles
in their local work environment, providing
greater flexibility.
16 Creating a thriving workplace
Diverse and productive teams 2018 engagement score of 72%
Prioritising wellbeing
72%
Our focus on wellbeing covers physical,
mental, financial and social wellbeing.
In 2018, we placed greater focus on mental
wellbeing, aiming to challenge stigma and
support our colleagues’ mental health.
We launched our Mental Wellbeing
employee-led network, a hub to help
2018 employee
our people speak up and give support. 85%
survey results
The network is rapidly growing with over
1,300 members. We provide free access
Smarter working
to Thrive’s Mental Wellbeing App, provide
support via The Bank Workers Charity and
Our aim is to enable our people to work
over 2,400 of our managers across the bank
in the way that best suits their needs, the
have completed our ‘Positive about Mental 85% of our people agreed that
needs of the business and our customers.
Health’ training. we created an environment
Our ‘smarter working’ programme supports
87%
where people of diverse
our performance management strategy and
During 2018 we partnered with Nudge to
backgrounds can succeed
allows for greater collaboration, efficiency and
offer an interactive tool to support colleagues’
flexibility. By working smarter, our people can
financial wellbeing.
choose the best place to work, helping them
We expanded our partnership with Gympass,
to optimise their productivity and establish
whose growing network of gyms and classes
a better balance between their work and 87% of employees agree that
now help over 2,000 of our colleagues find
personal lives. we act responsibly and make a
an activity they love to improve physical
positive contribution to society
Following our smarter working pilots,
wellbeing. In social wellbeing we continued to
percpetions of the working environment in
support our six employee-led networks which
those areas improved by 47% on average.
collectively have over 10,000 colleagues from
We run an comprehensive annual engagement survey which is open
across the bank.
to all our employees. This provides significant insights as to how our
colleagues feel about Santander as a place to work. From this we
create action plans to focus on our strengths and areas to develop.
17 Creating a thriving workplace
Building a bank Gender pay We are committed to addressing
this gap through transparency,
for everyone
Our gender pay and bonus gaps
understanding the root causes of
reflect our organisational structure.
issues and finding solutions that
We have proportionately more
are both practical and beneficial to
women than men in our branch and
We want to create a bank that’s
employees. Further details on our
customer service centre roles, and
journey to create an inclusive culture
representative of the society we
proportionately more men in our
and our latest annual Gender Pay Gap
operate in. We have a number
senior leadership team. In December,
report are available here.
we reported a mean average gender
of initiatives, programmes
In June 2016, we signed the HMT
pay gap of 33.6% (-1.7pp from 2017)
and training designed to build
Women in Finance Charter, setting a
inclusivity across our business.
50% (+/-10%) gender target for our
senior female population over five
years. In recognition of our approach
TOP 50
to creating a gender diverse bank, we
These include our employee-led
were a Times Top 50 Employer for
diversity networks, a returnship
EMPLOYERS FOR Women in 2018.
programme, and women’s
WOMEN
leadership development. We partner
with organisations such as Business 2018
in the Community (BiTC), Stonewall,
Women represent:
Business Disability Forum, INvolve
In association with
and Working Families. In 2018, we
signed the BiTC Race at Work Charter,
54%
of our board
committing to taking more action
to support ethnic minority career
progression and analyse our ethnicity
pay gap data. We also increased our
of our Executive
support for Pride in 2018, joining 36%
and a mean average gender bonus Committee
11 events across the UK along with
gap of 68.1% (-1pp from 2017).
a campaign of visual support via our
While we are pleased there has been
cash machines and branches.
some progress in our gender pay gap,
31%
there is still much to do. of senior managers
As of 1 January 2019
18 Creating a thriving workplace
Our impact
What have we done? Financial Times. Grand Prix award for our
As a result of the research, we identified The EMpower list for support of training video


several areas of improvement in our own BAME diversity.
The transformation of our learning
business. In 2018, we:
Case study: ‘Equal Lives’ research The OUTstanding power list for content has been recognised by


Increased transparency of our family- support of LGBT+. an award for our new ‘Vulnerable

Our cutting-edge ‘Equal Lives’ research in 
friendly policies on our careers site. Customers’ learning programme which
partnership with BiTC uncovered the societal HERoes Role Models for support of


will launch in 2019.
and organisational biases that exist among Advertised flexible working adjustments gender diversity.


men and women with caring responsibilities on all job adverts. High quality, inspiring internal videos
and how these can impact women’s career based on real customer stories have been
Doubled our paternity leave pay benefit


progression. developed to provide plenty of food for
across the organisation.
thought. The first episode was entered
The research comprised of a series of focus
Launched a pilot ‘Carers Passport’ to prompt
 into the Cannes Corporate Media & TV

groups, in-depth interviews, detailed case
colleagues who are carers to consider how More transparency
Awards and won two separate awards
study analysis from large UK employers,
their caring responsibilities impact their role
of our family-friendly policies
including the overall Grand Prix award, a
semi-structured interviews and an online
and what support they need. on our careers site
truly prestigious award in its field.
qualitative survey. In total, there were 82
Extended our parental leave to carers.
interviewees and 10,225 survey participants. 

Additionally, we have enhanced our Shared
What did we learn?
Parental Leave policy to give colleagues more
Women are 8x more likely than men to take
 flexibility and choice over when they can take

the primary role in childcare and are 1.5x
their leave. This allows them to take paid
more likely to take the primary role in caring
shared parental leave at any time within 12
Extended
for adults.
months of the birth or adoption of their child.
parental leave for carers
Two in three men said they would be

 Role models
encouraged to use family-friendly policies if
Role models are essential for creating greater
they were confident that it would not impact
diversity within businesses. We’re proud
their career.
that seven colleagues have been externally
Flexible working is considered most x2

 recognised for their inclusive leadership,
important when it comes to balancing work
including four of our senior leaders. These
and care. However, take up is significantly
benchmarks help identify future leaders,
Doubled our paternity
lower than its perceived importance.
advocates and executives and are published in
leave pay benefit
Read the full study here partnership with the
across the organisation
Sustainable economic growth
and financial inclusion
20 Sustainable economic growth and financial inclusion
Our ambition Context
UK politics
We want to deliver long lasting, sustainable growth
The uncertainty surrounding the UK’s exit from the
and positive socio-economic impact not only through our
European Union is presenting challenges for the UK
charitable giving and community programmes,
economy, including an additional lag on business
but also through our business operations.
investment. There are also risks attached to the type of
exit the UK takes from the EU and so we are changing the
What this means for us
way we assess customer needs to take account of these
As a bank, our main activities need to deliver returns not
new factors.
just for our shareholders but also to benefit our society
more broadly. To us, sustainable economic growth means Climate change
taking everyone with us on this journey, ensuring non-
Climate change is a shared global challenge and an
traditional businesses and those financially excluded have
increasing area of focus of the Bank of England and other
access to the right services and tools.
regulators. Both the Prudential Regulation Authority
We’ll do this by promoting financial inclusion for people
(PRA) and Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued
and businesses, supporting the growth of Small and
papers in 2018 on climate change risk management,
“ With advances in technology and
Medium Enterprises (SMEs) and social enterprises and
building on the Financial Stability Board’s Task Force
evolving customer behaviour, we
considering the risks and opportunities of climate change
recommendations. Banks are being challenged to embed
are seeing changes to the way
in the way we do business.
climate change risks in governance arrangements and risk
many customers access and use
Our support of our vulnerable customers, helping small management practice.
businesses grow and prosper through our ‘Breakthrough’ financial services. This means
Financial inclusion: Small and Medium Enterprises
programme and advancing education through our
it’s more important than ever to
universities scheme are just a few examples of our Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) play a critical role
keep customers at the heart of
commitment to drive sustainable economic growth. in the economy. They employ around half the UK private
our business, especially those
sector workforce and drive job creation. Our research
most vulnerable. That’s why I’m
shows that UK SMEs have created three times as many
jobs over the last five years than the UK’s large firms. so excited for our new partnership
However, access to finance is the main barrier to their
with Alzheimer’s Society, aiming
growth, especially loans and equity finance.
to make us the UK’s best digital
dementia-friendly bank.”
S usan Allen, Head of Retail and Business
Banking, Santander UK
Rhodes, C. (2017) Business Statistics, House of Commons Library Briefing Paper, No 06512
21 Sustainable economic growth and financial inclusion
Financial inclusion
We also organised knowledge masterclasses
We are proud to champion British businesses,
and workshops with some of the UK’s most
from start-up to scale-up and beyond.
innovative companies, including Auto Trader,
The Royal Mint and The Young Vic. Over 550
Santander Breakthrough helps ambitious SMEs grow and
businesses benefited from practical solutions
prosper through a range of activities focused on building
to grow their business across a wide range
connections, gaining knowledge, finding and retaining talent,
of topics including brand-led growth, cyber
and accessing opportunities for international growth and
Key: security, communication and leadership.
finance. During 2018, we’re proud to have supported over 7,900
businesses through these activities. l Breakthrough in
Branch events 2018 More than 1,700 SMEs have benefited
Tailored support for start-ups
from the Santander Universities
and SMEs
Internship Programme and its access
Our Breakthrough Connection events
to subsidised internships from over 80
provide an opportunity for peer-to-peer
partner universities.
networking and to learn from other
successful entrepreneurs:
In 2018, over 4,200 businesses attended one
 In 2018, Santander worked with the British

of 193 Breakthrough in Branch events, which
Library to pilot a one-stop-shop for start-
connect business owners to their local business
ups and SMEs through its national network
community across the UK.
of Business and Intellectual Property
centres. The collaboration offered support
We’re proud to continue to support female


beyond everyday banking, including advice
entrepreneurs through our Women in Business
on securing intellectual property and free
mentoring scheme in collaboration with
market intelligence.
Women Ahead.
Our Liverpool city incubator helps support


start-up founders, providing a workshop
programme, informal mentoring and a
network of like-minded businesses, all of
which help get a business through those first
4,200
challenging years. During 2018, we provided
tailored support to 28 businesses. businesses attended
Breakthrough in Branch events
https://www.insider.co.uk/news/smes-jobs-uk-santander-banking-13619316. European Commission Communication, ‘An action plan to improve access to finance for SMEs’ /* COM/2011/0870 final
22 Sustainable economic growth and financial inclusion
Global ambitions Case study: RentalStep
Santander UK’s incubator programme aims
Beyond everyday banking, we helped
to accelerate the growth of start-ups and
businesses achieve their global ambitions,
small businesses through day-to-day business
with 478 companies benefiting from 67
support, office space and funded interns.
activities aimed at supporting international
RentalStep was founded in 2016 with the aim
growth. These activities included a range of
of making the renting process better for both
overseas and virtual trade missions in
tenants and landlords, and has benefited from
addition to webinars, roundtables and
our incubator programme since 2017, with a
‘meet the buyer’ events.
total investment of over £600,000.
One trade mission in conjunction with the
Food & Drink Federation and the Department During a hugely successful 2018, RentalStep
of International Trade took 12 UK food and secured further funding as part of HM
drink manufacturers to India, showcasing Treasury’s Rent Recognition Challenge.
opportunities for manufacturers looking to Customer acquisition has continued to grow
export to the Indian food and drink sector, in the three months following the investment,
which is forecast to grow by 64% to £500 with a 500% increase in private tenants
billion by 2020. accessing their online services. RentalStep’s
growth has led to job opportunities, with
a new technical role thanks to the initial
funding, and a further two developer roles
and a customer role created.
Shaking up the SME switcher market
478 companies
In 2018 we launched the new 1I2I3 Business
benefiting from 67 activities aimed at
Current Account, to shake up the market for
supporting international growth
SMEs. This innovative, value-adding account
gives businesses up to £300 cashback per
annum, access to 1I2I3 Business World
preferential rates and offers, and a monthly
cash deposit limit of £1,000 at Santander
branches and Post Office counters. The account
has been rated as 5 Stars by Moneyfacts.
5 Stars
The 1I2I3 Business Current account
was rated as 5 Stars by Moneyfacts
23 Sustainable economic growth and financial inclusion
Our branches remain a vital channel,
and we are committed to maintaining a
We are committed to taking into
comprehensive national network. In 2018,
account the needs and expectations
we completed the refurbishment of 507
of all our customers.
branches, and in order to deliver a branch
network for the future, we will refurbish a
further 100 branches over the next two years
with an investment of £55 million. We will
The future of branches:
introduce community branches with spaces
our approach to host events catering for the financial needs
of our customers, such as fraud awareness
Banking habits are changing rapidly.
workshops or Breakthrough in Branch
Customers are increasingly using digital
events. Meanwhile, smaller branches will
channels to carry out their banking rather
use the latest technology to offer customers
than over the counter at our branches and
convenient access to services.
we expect this trend to continue across the
Santander customers can also access over
industry. With customers expecting continued
the counter banking services through any of
investment in our digital banking platforms,
the Post Office’s 11,500 branches across the
we have had to review our branch network to
UK. This service is offered by 27 UK banks and
ensure that we have a model that is fit for the
provides a convenient way to bank for many
future. As a result of this, in January 2019 we
customers. In areas where we close branches,
announced that we would be restructuring
our teams work closely with Post Offices
our branch network, including closing
to ensure local customers are aware of the
140 branches.
banking services available.
We are a signatory to the Access to Banking
Standard, which ensures open and fair
communication when banks decide to close
branches. In 2018, we closed 46 branches
in line with this standard and the changes in
2019 will also be carried out according to
these obligations.
£55 million
investment in our branches
in the next two years
24 Sustainable economic growth and financial inclusion
Specialist support team for Money Advice Trust
vulnerable customers
Santander and the Money Advice Trust
(the Trust) have a long-standing partnership
We remain committed to providing support for
to ensure that thousands of people in financial
our vulnerable customers and have continued to
Specialist Support Team Providing support
difficulty, regardless who they bank with,
make improvements in this area in 2018. A key
rolled out to over 7,500 for almost 900 vulnerable
are able to access free, impartial debt advice.
focus has been making a dedicated specialist
branch colleagues customers with complex needs
We support National Debtline and Business
support team available to all colleagues in our
Debtline with vital funding.
national network of branches. This has helped us
provide tailored support to almost 900 The Trust empowers people to engage with
vulnerable customers with complex or their banks and understand more about the
particular needs. financial challenges they face. This in turn
helps to ensure our customers become more
Through UK Finance, we’re also active members
resilient, equipping them with the skills they
of the Financial Abuse Working Party, and have
need for a stable financial future.
committed to the Code of Practice developed to
support and protect victims of financial abuse.
Personalised and proactive support
for customers
We recognise that vulnerable customers need
to be treated with care and attention when
their local branch is closed. That is why we will
proactively contact them to ensure they are
supported and advised on how they can continue
to bank locally.
Where needed this can include walking with
customers to the Post Office to introduce them to
the Post Office team and demonstrate how they
carry out transactions. We can introduce them to
staff in a neighbouring Santander branch or help
customers switch their account to another nearby
provider. Our people will also take the time to talk
to vulnerable customers about how they bank,
changing the frequency of statements, ordering
cash cards and demonstrating how to use cash
machines and contactless cards.
25 Sustainable economic growth and financial inclusion
Environment Climate change risk
We recognise that climate change is a significant
global issue and support the objectives of the Paris
Climate change
Climate Agreement on limiting emissions. In response
to recent developments from the PRA, the FCA and
We understand that the banking sector has an important
the Financial Stability Board’s Task Force (TCFD), we
role to play in the transition to a low carbon economy,
£922 million welcome an industry-wide approach to enhancing
which presents both risks and opportunities for our
our climate risk management practices, governance
of debt financing to 19 renewable
business. Large investment in renewable energy
energy projects in 20186 and disclosure statements.
infrastructure is needed to fund this transition. At
the same time, we must continue to improve our In 2018, we formed a cross-functional working group
understanding and application of climate change risk on climate change to shape our response in this
to our lending activity. Renewable financing rapidly developing area. We are working alongside
other industry participants, as well as engaging with
United Nations Pilot Project
our investors and other stakeholders.
We are one of the largest renewable energy
In 2017 Banco Santander, together with 15 other leading
financiers, ranking jointly as the number one
banks, joined a United Nations Environmental Programme
lender to the sector by number of transactions
Financial Initiative (UNEP FI) aimed at implementing
recommendations from the Financial Stability Board’s in 2018 in Europe and the UK.7
Task Force for Climate-related Financial Disclosures
(TCFD). This involved developing scenarios, models
Our Project & Infrastructure Finance team provides
and metrics to enable scenario-based, forward-looking
financing to onshore and offshore wind, solar and biofuel
assessment and disclosure of climate-related risks and
projects, both at a preconstruction and operational
opportunities. In 2018 two outcomes were published:
stage. In addition to this, we offer advisory services to our
the first, a guidance focusing on transition risk (Extending
renewable and alternative energy clients on how to raise
Our Horizons: accessing credit risk and opportunity in a
capital to fund these types of projects.
changing climate) and the second, a report that helped
In 2018 we provided £922 million in debt financing to
banks assess risks and opportunities arising from physical
19 renewable energy projects. Each of these projects
risk (Navigating a New Climate).
support our common objective to decarbonise society by
As part of the UNEP FI pilot project, Banco Santander’s risk
producing renewable energy and reducing overall
function has been working on applying methodologies
energy consumption.
and tools to stress test specific sectors and build expertise
on the analysis of transition and physical risks. Climate
change is included in the risk section of our annual reports
at both a UK and Group level.
6. To be consistent with prior year reporting this figure includes business that was transferred in 2018 as part of our ringfencing, and now sits within Santander London Branch. 7. Inframation Renewable league tables UK, 2018
26 Sustainable economic growth and financial inclusion
Internal environmental performance
Total energy usage (MWh)
Ranking second of UK banks
170,000
for emissions reduction
160,000
For the third year in a row, Santander has
ranked second among the top five retail banks 150,000
Electricity usage
in the UK for environmental performance
140,000
fell by 4.9%
related to the UK CRC (Carbon Reduction
in 2018 130,000
Commitment) Energy Efficiency Scheme.
Since 2010, we have reduced our emissions
120,000
year on year.
110,000
Robust management
Our significant reductions can be attributed
100,000
Internally, we have a robust environmental
to a switch to more efficient energy sources,
sustainability practice involving multiple
a move away from coal, and a reduction in 2016 2017 2018
stakeholders across the business as well as
energy consumption. Electricity usage fell by
governance through a dedicated Sustainability 4.9% and gas usage by 3.0% in 2018. MWh usage
Working Group (made up of senior managers
Our electricity is sourced entirely from green
across the business). Our Environmental &
supplies including biomass, wind and water.
Energy Management Systems provide an
Over 99.6% of the waste generated through
operational management framework across
our operations (primarily paper, plastic, Gas usage (MWh) Electricity - Green Biomass (MWh)
our 15 main offices and data centres in the UK.
aluminium, glass and food), is either recycled
Smart meter technology allows us to track the
35,000 150,000
or diverted from landfill. Our online banking
energy performance of our properties, helping
30,000 140,000
customers receive paperless statements (with
us to reduce energy wastage by optimising
an opt-out option), and our print suppliers
our plant operation. In 2018, we successfully 25,000 130,000
have ISO 14001 certification and maintain full
recertified the ISO 14001 and ISO 50001
20,000 120,000
Forest Stewardship Council chain of custody.
accreditation across all of these properties.
15,000 110,000
We have a Go Green Network of more than
10,000 100,000
2,700 employees championing initiatives to
2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018
be more environmentally friendly, such as 99.8%
MWh usage MWh usage
a successful plastic reduction campaign in
2018.
Over 99.8% of waste
is ethically recycled
or diverted from land fill
27 Sustainable economic growth and financial inclusion
Community investment
We support and invest in communities across the UK to foster sustainable economic growth.
Helping our communities prosper Our ambition is to become the
best digital dementia-friendly bank
Our volunteering and fundraising in 2018 focused
In 2018 we increased the number of people
on building skills, developing knowledge and
reached through our Wise workshops by in the UK
supporting innovation. Our people had the
opportunity to volunteer for local community 397,466
87%
organisations, and we saw over 11,500 colleagues In January 2019, we welcomed people reached
in 2018
engage with this programme during 2018.
Alzheimer’s Society as our new charity
Through work experience initiatives with our
partner, chosen by a colleague vote.
partners National Citizen Service and Career Ready,
we offered work opportunities to students from
all backgrounds, which help swell the talent pools
2017 38,284
Our aim is to become the best digital dementia-
needed by all businesses and the wider economy.
friendly bank in the UK. The focus of the
Over £5.4 million
partnership will be to improve financial inclusion
Santander Foundation
2018 71,745 awarded in grants and matched
and help those within our communities who
donations by the Santander
In 2018, the Santander Foundation awarded
may struggle to cope with new technology, as
Foundation in 2018
over £3.3 million in grants to almost 700
well as fundraising activities and volunteering.
Thousand 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80
organisations to deliver projects that improve skills
Together with Alzheimer’s Society, we’ll seek to
and knowledge and promote innovative solutions
explore ways in which we, as a bank, can make a
to help disadvantaged people in the UK. In
difference. We’ll work closely with the charity to
87%
addition, the Foundation donated over £2.1 million
Educational workshops better understand and respond to the needs and
through the Staff Matched Donation Scheme to
challenges of both our customers who may be
We further developed our popular in-school
support our employees’ fundraising for charities of
Workshop students
affected by dementia, and their carers.
mentoring programme, ‘Wise workshops’, where
their choice. In 2019 the Foundation will undergo
rose by 87%
Santander volunteers teach students about topics
a strategic review to redefine its purpose and
in 2018
such as responsible money management or career
activities with the ambition to deliver the greatest
planning, to include a new module around staying
positive impact in our communities.
safe online. These workshops soared in popularity
in 2018, with enthusiastic uptake by colleagues. The
number of workshop students rose by 87%.
Social enterprises and community projects
28 Sustainable economic growth and financial inclusion
We know from our research with Social Enterprise UK
that small, socially-focused organisations can struggle to
Santander Universities
access the finance they need to realise their full potential.
Santander Universities is our global programme to
The Changemaker Fund, running from 2017 to 2019,
Over €1.6 billion
support and advance education. Since 2002, Banco
was one part of our effort at Santander to help charities
donated by Banco Santander
Santander has donated over €1.6 billion to universities
and community enterprises to get off the ground.
group to universities since 2002
across the globe.
Partnering with Crowdfunder, we aimed to enable
entrepreneurs to tackle social challenges. Analysis by the
‘Vision 2020’ sets out our aim to provide impactful,
Social Innovation Partnership found:
diverse and inclusive support to future talent through
education, entrepreneurship and employability
programmes. Our goal is to provide life-changing
£1.15 million in funds raised
opportunities to more people over the next three years More than 29,000
with Santander contributing over £450,000
than we have in the previous ten. We’ll ensure 80% of
people supported by our
recipients are from widening participation backgrounds Universities programme in 2018
and aspire to an equal gender balance.
75 new full-time jobs created
Santander Cycles across the funded projects
In the UK we’ve donated over £79 million to 84
Since launching in 2015, Santander Cycles continue to
UK partner universities in the last eleven years.
help create a prosperous, connected and mobile society.
As part of our partnership with Social Enterprise UK,
we also funded financial skills workshops for social
Cycling can help improve physical and mental health
enterprises, training 607 people in 2018.
In 2018, we directly supported more than 29,000
by encouraging an active lifestyle, as well as boosting
students, graduates and university staff. We also
productivity at work. Public cycling schemes can also
Our future direction
funded internships for students and graduates in SMEs
support local economies, by providing residents and
across the UK, supporting 2,262 internships with 38%
tourists with an alternative way to travel and commute. In 2019, we aim to go beyond traditional volunteering
of students going on to further employment. Our
This can mean that local businesses receive more and fundraising to deliver long-term, meaningful
aspiration is to achieve a 75% employment rate from
exposure, with increased choice for more customers. In value to society. Moving beyond skills, knowledge and
these internships by 2020.
addition, cycling can avoid air pollution and greenhouse innovation, we will focus our resources on topics where
gas emissions caused by cars or taxis. For more findings, we can make a real difference such as financial inclusion,
We also run the Santander Universities
please see our impact pathway, conducted by PwC, in the job creation, and education, digital inclusion and fighting
Entrepreneurship Awards. In 2018, we included an
2017 Sustainability Report. financial crime.
‘Accelerator Week’ to provide 18 of the best start-ups
with 15 masterclasses from experts and business
leaders. Our £1 million Enterprise and Entrepreneurship
Fund, launched with 15 partner universities, aims to
help students start, run or scale a business.
29 Sustainable economic growth and financial inclusion
Age UK and Barnardo’s partnership
In 2016 our colleagues chose to support Age UK
and Barnardo’s with a three year partnership
designed to help our communities prosper.
£3.2m
Over More than
£3.2 million 10,000 hours
raised to support of time to directly support
Age UK and Barnardo’s people for both charities
95%
Together,
of participants
we’ve supported 57,533 people
said events made
to have the skills, knowledge
them feel proud to
and resilience to face the future
work for Santander UK
with confidence
30 Sustainable economic growth and financial inclusion
Our impact
Tackling financial and social exclusion with our charity partners
£82m
One of the aims of our partnership with Age UK and Barnardo’s was to tackle the
root causes of financial and social exclusion affecting older and younger people.
of unclaimed
Ambitions for Later Life On-Track project benefits accessed by
help of Age UK
The over-60s is the fastest-growing group We established the On-Track project with
in society, with many at risk of financial Barnardo’s to transform the lives of the
and social exclusion, and 1.9 million older most vulnerable young people in society,
people already living in poverty. Fewer than including care leavers, young people with 382
three in ten people at retirement age have learning difficulties, or those with mental
any plan for funding long term care. health issues.
young people
Since 2016 the service has helped 382
helped overcome major
young people overcome major challenges
With Santander funding, Age UK
challenges in their life
in their lives, enabling them to fully
launched ‘Ambitions for Later
participate in society and have access to
Life’. This initiative has supported
financial services which meet their needs.
over 5,800 older people to plan Barnardo’s worked with local Santander
branches to provide employability support
for the times ahead and be more
such as mentoring. This programme
financially resilient.
provides a strong social return on
investment of £3.20 for every £1, based
The primary benefit of the initiative has on a robust cost-benefit methodology
been to support financial security, with developed and internally validated by
Age UK helping people to remain in their Barnardo’s; demonstrating the project’s
homes, afford to leave the house and use wider benefit to society.
transport such as taxis. This has been
Although our three year corporate
transformative for many older people.
partnership has now ended, together we
As of December 2018, Age UK have
will continue to explore ways to provide
helped people access over £8.7 million in
support where it’s needed most.
unclaimed benefits through
the programme.
31 Sustainable economic growth and financial inclusion Growth capital study Case study
Flight Club is the London-based
These interviews give us the confidence
Driving Sustainable Economic Growth in SMEs birthplace of Social Darts, which
that our Growth Capital investment does
uses ground-breaking technology
indeed boost growth meaningfully for
and fast-paced multi-player games.
our customers. To supplement these
Understanding our value
Customer interview results
Flight Club has secured £5 million
qualitative findings, we commissioned
As part of our new approach to We believe that our funding has a positive a small study aimed at confirming and in Growth Capital funding from
sustainability, we aim to better understand impact on growth, across revenue, profits helping us quantify the impact of growth Santander Business Banking to help
and measure the value we create beyond and employee numbers. In order to better capital lending on firms’ revenue, profit it open additional venues across the
profit and across all stakeholder groups. We understand this impact, we interviewed a and employees’ growth. The study UK, the first of which is in Victoria. The
started by doing an impact assessment on representative sample of our portfolio which was limited in scope to 17 instances of business has seen staff numbers rise
Santander Breakthrough in 2017, available comprised of 18 companies. Our findings lending and so it is important to note the from 84 to over 250 to accommodate
in the 2017 report. This impact assessment were as follows: confidence interval1 around the this impressive growth.
describes in qualitative terms how the
central results.
Our funding is used by customers for Flight Club has also benefited from


activities we deliver through Breakthrough
meaningful investment and capital Taking into account these limitations, a part-funded intern through the
have multiple impacts, for example, on
spend, including recruitment, improved the study provided additional evidence Santander Breakthrough programme.
employability, jobs, economic growth or
IT systems and platforms, expansion into of growth across revenue, profit and
even wellbeing.
new markets and international growth. employee numbers. It estimated that,
within one year, for every £100,000 lent:
Growth Capital financing of SMEs
Growth Capital deals seem to also


“ We’re delighted to be
As a financial institution, one of Santander have a positive impact on job creation,  Revenues increase between £125,000

UK’s most important roles is supporting despite the increasing adoption of new and £255,000 the following year. opening in Victoria and
SME growth. Finance is essential for SMEs technologies or headcount measures have strong aspirations
Profits (EBIT) increase between £10,000


to grow, but there is substantial evidence taken on acquisition deals.
and £60,000 the following year. to grow further, taking
that SMEs face larger growth constraints
Often, our funding improved the
 Social Darts to as many
 Employees increase between 0.5 and
and have less access to formal sources of  
companies’ profitability. This is despite
2.7 the following year.
people as possible,
external finance. Our Growth Capital team
the fact that entrepreneurs and start-ups
is designed to provide high growth SMEs
The study compared our Growth Capital and the funding from
initially invest in higher overheads to scale
with innovative funding solutions. In 2018,
customers against a control group from
their business, which can depress profits Santander will help us
we provided £20.7 million of growth capital
FAME database with similar firms who had
in the short term.
fulfil this ambition.”
and £100.7 million of senior debt to 35
not received any lending, from Santander
We also see an increase in revenues on
companies, as part of our Breakthrough  Ross Shepley-Smith, Chief
 UK or other providers.
the back of our support in most cases,
programme. The team’s transactions fall Financial Officer, Flight Club
These interviews, the quantitative
with outperformance in newer areas of
into two areas: those which facilitate
study, our customer case studies and
customers’ operations.
organic growth, and those involving a
Breakthrough impact pathway together
change in ownership.
help demonstrate the value our support
brings to start-ups and small businesses.
We calculated the mean on a sample as a proxy for the mean on the full population, and on such a small sample it is prudent to quote the 90% confidence interval
– where we can be 90% certain this range contains the true mean of the population. A database of company information in the UK and Ireland
Inclusive
digitalisation
33 Inclusive Digitalisation
Our ambition Context
We live in a constantly changing world where
new technologies, shifting demographics
We want to be worthy of our customers’ and societal needs require us to re-shape the
trust, reflecting our focus on best-in-class way we operate.
data security. We aim to use technology in a
way that creates value for all our stakeholders Digital inclusion
and supports financial inclusion. Technology
“D igital inclusion, or rather, reducing digital
should help simplify our processes, and make
exclusion, is about making sure that people have
services more accessible and convenient. It
the capability to use the internet to do things
is our responsibility to ensure the highest
that benefit them day to day - whether they be
standards of data security which will help us
individuals, SMEs or community organisations.
earn and inspire trust.
It covers digital skills; connectivity; and
user accessibility.”
What this means for us
UK Government Digital Strategy
By unlocking the potential of digitalisation we
believe we can help our customers and society Card and contactless payment
explore new possibilities, and find new ways to
Debit cards are now the most common form of
overcome some of the challenges of
payment in the UK, overtaking cash for the first
everyday life.
time in 2017. In 2007 cash was used in over half of
We have a responsibility to use the power payments, and over the next ten years it is expected
of technology to support financial inclusion, to continue to decline to 16% of all payments.
improve cybersecurity, fight financial crime Almost two thirds of people in the UK now use
and protect customer privacy and security. At contactless technology to make payments. At the
the same time, we recognise that the speed of same time, cash remains an important method of
digital change makes certain sectors of society payment for vulnerable groups in society, whose
vulnerable to financial exclusion, and we’ll work digital exclusion in turn risks financial exclusion.
to tackle this emerging issue.
“ I firmly believe technology is a powerful enabler of financial inclusion. For example, we can leverage
technology to make our offers available to more customers, simplifying access to credit for first time
home buyers and offering valuable opportunities to people who’ve never invested before.”
Michael Harte, Chief Operating Officer, Santander UK
UK Finance (2018) UK Payment Markets 2018
34 Inclusive Digitalisation
Digitalisation Online mortgages
In 2018 we launched a new mortgage servicing hub
in Online Banking, to give customers more control
and financial
and flexibility to manage their mortgage online. As
well as providing real-time information about their
mortgage, customers can now make one-off extra
inclusion
payments, saving them money over the life of their
mortgage. This service has been well-received, with
over £46 million of payments made to date8. We
Digital Investment Adviser
also continue to see more customers choosing to
stay with us and take a new mortgage deal online -
55% now choose to do so, up 7% on 2017.
Making our products more accessible
for all our customers is a key priority. To Customer relationship management
support this, we’ve introduced a new
NeoCRM is our customer relationship management
investment advice service. tool and a key enabler of our ambition to deliver
a seamless omni-channel approach by providing
greater transparency for colleagues to better serve
Digital Investment Adviser is an online service that
customers. This approach allows our customers to
offers affordable high-quality digital investment
engage with us in the branch, on the telephone or
advice to customers who have less experience
via digital channels and to pick up the conversation
with investing.
where they left off, through a different channel if
they choose. Feedback from across the business will
Digital Investment Adviser also helps to establish
continue to be a key driver to improve and enhance
whether investing is right for the customer,
the tool.
recommending alternative savings options if
appropriate. In less than 30 minutes, through the
completion of simple and interactive activities, a
personal investment recommendation is offered
with the potential to invest from £20 per month
up to a maximum investment of £20,000. The
new service leverages our existing Investment Hub
platform and complements our Financial Planning
service for customers who receive face-to-face
advice.
8. As of 27 January 2019
35 Inclusive Digitalisation
Enhanced Mobile Banking
Our Mobile Banking app offers a great
experience and best-in-class security features,
allowing customers to manage their finances
when and where they want, with design and
usability for all users at the forefront of our
approach to solving real customer needs.
4.8 rating
We offer biometrics, including fingerprint and
on the iOS App Store
facial recognition, to log in using compatible
devices. This can be helpful to customers
who prefer not to use passwords. Additional
support is available for customers with visual
impairments, as the app enables the words on
the screen to be read out loud, and customers
can use gestures to navigate through the app.
Introducing card controls
We’ve continued to add features
In 2019 we’ll be introducing card controls to our Mobile
responding to research and customer
Banking app, giving customers the ability to instantly freeze
feedback, resulting in an excellent iOS
their debit or credit card if they think it’s been lost or stolen.
app rating of 4.8
Customers will also benefit from on/off controls that enable or disable
The recent innovative addition of ‘Quick individual card features including contactless payments, international,
Balance’ allows customers to easily view their online or gambling payments.
available balance as a widget on their phone.
DigiWise
We added pending transactions for credit card
customers which allows greater visibility of We developed our popular in-school programme, where Santander UK
‘available to spend’ limits. We plan to do the volunteers teach students about responsible money management and
same for bank accounts in 2019, plus introduce career planning, to include a new session around staying safe online.
other features, all based on customer feedback, Launched in 2018, this helps Year 9 students understand their digital
like digital PINs. This will allow for an on-screen footprint, data protection and intellectual property. We developed the
reminder of a forgotten PIN, saving customers materials with Young Citizens, an education charity working in schools
from waiting for a postal reminder. to educate, inspire and motivate the citizens of tomorrow.
36 Inclusive Digitalisation
Data protection Our impact
and cyber security Cyber Defence Alliance
Cyber security is a key priority for us. Our customers We work closely with law enforcement
are moving increasingly to digital banking, with a 97%
agencies, regularly sharing intelligence
increase in the use of contactless payments in the UK
to help prevent and detect potential
in 2017. They rightly expect us to protect their money
malicious activity.
from cybercrime and online fraud, while providing the
convenience of easy access. We recognise the change
in security risk this represents compared to traditional
We’re a founding member of the Cyber Defence
banking. In response, we’ve grown our investment in
Alliance, a consortium of British based banks and
cyber security while partnering with other banks and
law enforcement agencies, whose members work
law enforcement to share information and address
collaboratively in the broader interest of the entire
threats. We take a joined up, global approach aligned
financial industry. During 2018, activities by this
with the Banco Santander group.
consortium resulted in the arrest of criminals,
reducing their ability to target customers in the future.
The threat from cyber criminals is constantly evolving.
To keep pace with new threats and to make sure we
We’re also committed to improving cyber security
have the right skills to combat them, we’re a primary
awareness. Following an incident in which a charity
sponsor of ‘Cyber Security Challenge UK’. This initiative
was targeted with a malicious email as part of a
involves a series of competitions designed to test
£100,000 invoice scam, we organised an event to
cyber security skills of the next generation of
raise awareness amongst 50 well known UK charities.
cyber defenders.
The event provided information on cyber-attacks
In 2018, we introduced our new Mobile Banking app
and included advice for companies on prevention
which includes enhanced features and security. We
and reporting processes. Attendees found the
consider vulnerability and ease of use as a standard
event extremely useful and have been able to take
part of any development. For example, the use of
the advice given and relay this within their local
fingerprints and Face ID makes it easier to access our
organisation, helping everyone to remain secure.
Mobile Banking app without the need to remember
credentials, while maintaining high security standards.
Reporting in detail on particular security controls may
increase our exposure to evolving threats, which has
limited our disclosures. We will continue to develop
meaningful reporting to be as transparent as possible
on how we address this important challenge.
Upholding the highest ethical
standards and fighting financial crime
38 Upholding the highest ethical standards and fighting financial crime
Our ambition Context
Staying one step ahead of criminals
Ethics and integrity are the foundation of a prosperous
Financial crime is one of the largest systemic risks
business and society. We’re determined to uphold the
to the global economy, and the financial industry
highest ethical standards, promote human rights and
has an important role to play in supporting law
responsible corporate culture.
enforcement to proactively detect, deter and disrupt
criminals. The finance industry works closely with law
What this means for us
enforcement and Government agencies to stop the
Corruption, bribery, modern slavery and financial crime threat and protect customers. The latest technological
erode the value that our business creates and divert developments are enabling sophisticated risk analysis
precious resources away from the socio-economic of customers and transactions, and will also play an
health and growth of our country. ever more important role in staying ahead of criminals.
The fair treatment of customers remains at the heart The importance of regulation
of what we do. We’ll deal with any form of customer
Regulation in the UK remains focused on making banks
fraud as a priority and are committed to raising
stronger, supporting positive customer outcomes, and
customer awareness and resilience to any form of
encouraging greater competition.
financial fraud. Our financial crime strategy seeks to
In 2018 we’ve seen major regulations implemented
deter, detect and disrupt financial crime, to protect our
in General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), Second
customers and communities.
Payment Services Directive (PSD2) and Markets in
Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID II). Greater
transparency supports trust in business, while
standard disclosures help investors, customers and
“O ur ambitious new sustainability
other stakeholders make informed decisions.
strategy reflects the importance
that we place on a strong internal
culture and ethical standards.
Demonstrating this and having
the courage to do the right thing,
at every level of the business, will
enable us to effectively deter, detect
and disrupt financial crime.”
John Collins, Head of Legal, Santander
39 Upholding the highest ethical standards and fighting financial crime Our Santander behaviours
Living the Santander Way
Ethical governance and culture
The Santander behaviours describe how we should interact
day to day with our colleagues, customers, shareholders and
communities to bring simple, personal and fair to life.
Simple, Personal and Fair
Our commitment to be simple, personal and fair, underpinned by our nine behaviours means the fair Bring Passion
treatment of customers is at the heart of what we do. We always look to improve our processes and and energy and give my best.
training to ensure this, integrating fair treatment of our customers into our product and service design
reviews.
Give Support
to colleagues by taking a genuine interest in
Our culture Responsible supply chain
them and appreciating their contribution.
Workplace culture is very important to all our We want to do business with like-minded
stakeholders: from our employees and customers companies who share our values and ambition Truly Listen
to the regulators and investors. We also believe to be a driver of prosperity. With this in mind, we for different and new opinions and
it reflects the values of the company as a whole. continually review our supply chain management am open to challenge.
We’re focusing on embedding our values in the policies and processes. We meet the Living Wage
Actively Collaborate
company culture by: requirement for employees of suppliers who work
with others to get the best outcome
at our sites in the UK, and our standard supplier
for the customer.
contracts include specific requirements to respect
human rights and ethical labour practice based on
Keep Promises
the principles of the UN Global Compact.
and make decisions.
In 2018 we created a dedicated Third Party
Risk Management (TPRM) team responsible for
Focusing Ensuring
Embrace Change
developing and maintaining an effective Third
on communicating our accountability for and look for better ways to do things.
Party Risk Management framework. This team
purpose and strategy behaviours
completed 55 audits on third party suppliers in
2018, and we will continue to review and improve
Speak Up
our approach around these audits in 2019.
and challenge where necessary.
We also improved our governance by enhancing
our third party risk forum structure. Reputational
Talk Straight
Supporting Simplifying
risks related to our supply chain, including issues
and think about the impact of my words.
our leaders to lead our processes and related to modern slavery, are escalated to our
through transformation systems
Reputational Risk Forum launched in 2017.
Show Respect
including through little things.
40 Upholding the highest ethical standards and fighting financial crime
Lending policies The results of the latest PRA stress tests Customer engagement
were released in November 2018 and placed
Our policy on Aerospace and Defence, Energy, FRS reported that we ranked second in retail customer satisfaction9
Santander as the most resilient of UK banks.
Mining, Metals and Soft Commodities defines
on a rolling 12-month basis at December 2018, achieving our 2018
We’re proud to have held this position for
our approach towards creating long term
three consecutive years as a result of our target. On a Net Promoter Score basis, we are ranked in the top three
value within these sectors while managing the
risk management.
highest performing peers.
related reputational, social and environmental
risks. In 2018 we released a Sensitive Social
Bank of England 2018 stress tests
and Ethical Sectors Policy to guide our
CET1 drawdown (percentage points)
investment in certain sectors, strengthening
our local governance. Our Reputational Risk
1.4
Santander UK
Forum is responsible for reviewing, monitoring
and escalating to Board level key decisions 6.4 Barclays
around financial and non-financial risks.
6.6 RBS
As part of the Santander Group, we comply
7.7 Lloyds
with the Equator Principles, which means that
8.8 HSBC
we factor social, ethical and environmental
17.1 Nationwide
impacts into our risk analysis and decision-
making process for financial transactions.
Source: Bank of England, Stress testing the UK banking system: 2018 results
These principles address matters such as
climate change, prevention of pollution and
Probate and bereavement practices
toxic waste emissions, biodiversity, indigenous
peoples and human rights.
In 2018, we were fined £32.8 million by
the FCA following an investigation into our
Financial resilience and stability
historical probate and bereavement practices.
We’ve completed a comprehensive tracing
Banks play a vital role in the economy and
exercise and have already successfully
society, and as such have a responsibility to be
transferred the majority of funds in deceased
resilient to future shocks and sudden changes
customers’ accounts to their rightful
in the market. To ensure UK banks are fit for
beneficiaries, with compensatory interest being
a number of potential scenarios, including
paid where appropriate. In response to the
severe downturns in GDP, employment and
findings, we made significant improvements to
housing prices, the Prudential Regulation
our whole probate and bereavement process,
Authority (PRA) conducts stress tests across
ensuring we provide both a sensitive and
the industry.
efficient service to our bereaved customer
representatives and those who are managing
the estates of people who have passed away.
9. Retail customer satisfaction as measured by the Financial Research Survey (FRS) run by Ipsos MORI. Please see Appendix 1.
41 Upholding the highest ethical standards and fighting financial crime Know your customer
Our Anti-Money Laundering (AML) standards prohibit us
from entering in a relationship with customers where
Tackling financial crime, fraud and scams
it is known or confirmed that they have been involved
in human rights abuses, including modern slavery, or
where there are allegations of human rights abuse.
We identify these indicators through adverse press
Financial crime In 2018, we strengthened our approach to checks for customers subject to enhanced due diligence,
financial crime education, with the formation as part of our risk-based approach. During 2018, the
In 2018 we continued to upgrade our
of an Anti Financial Crime training academy Financial Crime Assurance Team conducted a number
financial crime control framework.
and dedicated internal teams. Over the year, of enhanced due diligence reviews, including testing
We established a centralised programme with
we provided: customer Know Your Customer (KYC) files to confirm that
direct oversight and governance, reviewed by
Over 3,000 these checks were completed and managed correctly.
over 3,000 colleagues with enhanced
the Board Responsible Banking Committee. 

colleagues with enhanced
Financial Crime training;
financial crime training Strategy
20 events at Santander offices to promote

The Anti Financial Crime Strategy has a 
awareness; and
clear mission statement formed around
the principles of ‘Deter, Detect and Disrupt’, over 5,000 colleagues with a monthly


working to protect our customers and newsletter.
communities. We continually explore the
Building on the increased training and
use of new technologies, participating and
awareness activities, we recently launched
winning awards as part of an FCA TechSprint
a new project to build an anti financial crime
20 events
event for financial crime.
THE 3 PRINCIPLES -
culture across Santander through educational
at Santander offices to
Collaboration is an essential part of the and other activities. DETER, DETECT, DISRUPT
promote awareness
strategy, and we work both within the bank
and with external bodies to ensure alignment
DETER
We want to give our colleagues the
and to help identify and address emerging
challenges. We support public and private
knowledge, skills and environment
Discouraging criminals from attempting to
partnerships tackling financial crime risks
that empowers them to take the right access Santander UK.
and take part in committees with senior
decisions in order to help protect
DETECT
government ministers. We’re engaged with
law enforcement and industry through society from the damage caused by
Identify criminal activity, investigating
Over 5,000
initiatives such as the Joint Money Laundering
financial crime.
appropriately and effectively.
colleagues receive a
Intelligence Taskforce (JMLIT). For more on the
monthly newsletter
impact of this collaboration, see page 42. DISRUPT
Analysing intelligence to support law
enforcement in tackling criminal activity.
42 Upholding the highest ethical standards and fighting financial crime
Fraud and scams The new process asks customers to pick a


category of payment when making a transfer.
Our people continue to volunteer in communities
to raise awareness of fraud and scams by  Depending on the selection the customer

delivering ’Fraud and Scam Awareness’ makes, specific scam avoidance guidance will
workshops. We worked extensively with Age be provided.
UK, our charity partner, to deliver educational
This step is a compulsory part of the payment


sessions on fraud and scams to groups of
process, introduced online and to be followed
older people.
by a rollout to branches and contact centres.
We also run ’Scam Avoidance Schools’, an
In addition to these warnings, customers will
engaging campaign to raise awareness of the
be alerted to the fact that scammers will often
sophistication of scammers. These are run in
pressurise them into making an immediate
Santander branches and are free for the public
payment. Customers will have the option to set
to attend. The popularity of these events was
a cooling-off period, giving them time to change
recognised by politicians in July 2018, when
their mind and cancel the payment. Customers
members of our Fraud and Customer Interactions
are asked to confirm they are not being asked
Team presented at a drop-in event in Parliament
to move their money by anyone, that they have
to highlight the campaign. As at the end of 2018
freely chosen the reason for the payment, and
we had run over 1,000 classes for over
have read the associated scam warning before
20,000 attendees.
they continue.
Combating the rise in payment scams
Industry data shows £145.4 million was lost to
authorised push payment (APP) scams between
“W e are pleased to be introducing
January and June 2018. APP fraud is where
these changes which we believe
the customer is tricked into sending money
offer a new and unique approach
to a fraudster. In a move to combat this, we
have launched a new payment process to help
to preventing payment scams and,
customers avoid malicious payee and redirection
crucially, providing better protection
scams. The new processes include payment
and awareness for our customers.“
classifications with tailored warnings, sort code
validation to display the recipient bank name and a Chris Ainsley, Head of Fraud Strategy at
voluntary cooling-off period. Santander UK
43 Upholding the highest ethical standards and fighting financial crime
Our impact
Deterring, detecting and disrupting modern slavery Spotting illegal exploitation Supporting a major police
in the construction industry operation in the car wash industry
In 2018, the Financial Intelligence Unit (FIU) continued to
Through our collaboration with the JMLIT The UK hand car wash industry is
 
 
actively collaborate with law enforcement and industry
Expert’s Working Group on human trafficking recognised as particularly vulnerable to
through the Joint Money Laundering Task Force (JMLIT)
and modern slavery, the FIU developed a labour exploitation.
typology focused on an emerging trend of
as part of our ongoing commitment to deter, detect and
Through our engagement with JMLIT, the


labour exploitation. This is the most common
disrupt financial crime. In 2018 this contributed to the FIU supported Operation Dahoon, which the
form of modern slavery, which is a particular
NCA described as their biggest ever operation
success of major law enforcement operations, including
vulnerability within the construction industry.
targeting an Organised Crime Group (OCG)
labour exploitation, as well as greater awareness within
The FIU used the findings of the intelligence engaged in human trafficking and modern


our industry of the indicators of modern slavery. analysis to produce a National Crime Agency slavery linked to 36 car washes throughout
(NCA) alert, which was published on behalf the UK.
of the JMLIT and disseminated to all UK
The FIU contributed in building a rich picture


financial institutions. The alert provided a
of associations and links which gave direction
number of key behavioural and common
to a national and international multi-agency
transactional indicators of this form of
operation across the UK. This involved police
modern slavery, which has been used for
forces from France, Holland and Belgium and
training and to assist identifying vulnerable
led to 21 arrests and multiple search warrants.
victims of such crimes who are often ‘hidden
in plain sight’.
This work of the FIU will be further


disseminated when it will be presented to
a UK Finance facilitated training webinar on
labour exploitation in Spring 2019.
44 Upholding the highest ethical standards and fighting financial crime
How we helped prevent nearly £38
million of fraud in 2018
Last year, employees in the banking industry helped
prevent fraud to the tune of £38 million thanks to the
Banking Protocol initiative.
Launched in 2016, Banking Protocol is a collaboration
between the police, banks and Trading Standards.
Santander has signed up to this initiative, which aims to
help vulnerable victims who are in the process of being
defrauded of funds from their bank accounts.
Banking Protocol impact in 2018:
£38 million 231
arrests
of fraud prevented
4,240 £8,960 of fraud
emergency calls prevented
per emergency call,
on average
Looking ahead
2018 was an exciting year. We
introduced our new strategy and
“M y team and I are very
focus areas, and the steps we need to
excited about the year
take on our journey towards greater
ahead of us. We are working
sustainability at Santander. This requires
action across the business, from the closely with the business to
new approach launched by our financial
truly integrate sustainability
crime team to the investment in our
in our decisions and be the
people and our focus on helping starts-
responsible bank that our
ups and small businesses.
stakeholders can trust.”
We aim to integrate the strategy into
every part of our business, making it a core Tina Boyle, Head of Brand Strategy
part of our decision-making at all levels. In and Sustainability, Santander UK
2019, we’ll focus on bringing the strategy
to life by working collaboratively across
the business to define in more detail what The data in the Sustainability Report
success looks like and set targets to help is based on the 2018 Strategic Report
us measure progress. stakeholder review and accompanying
‘Stakeholder and environmental metrics’,
We want to share our vision with our
both of which have been externally
customers, colleagues, shareholders, and
verified. Please visit our
other stakeholders. We’re committed to
Sustainability website for the full list of
being transparent, communicating in an
metrics and assurance statement.
honest and accessible way.
There’s a lot of work ahead of us, but with
an overwhelmingly positive response
so far from colleagues and stakeholders
more broadly, we know that we’re on the
right track.
Appendix 1
The Financial Research Survey (FRS) is a monthly personal finance survey of around 5,000 The competitor set used to calculate the product weights is Barclays, Halifax, HSBC, Lloyds
consumers prepared by the independent market research agency, Ipsos MORI. Bank, Nationwide and NatWest. The competitor set included in this analysis for the ranking and
highest performing peers is Barclays, Halifax, HSBC, Lloyds Bank, and NatWest.
The ‘retail customer satisfaction’ score refers to the proportion of extremely and very satisfied
customers across mortgages, savings, main current accounts, home insurance, UPLs and The ‘Net Promoter score’ is based on 11-point scale (0-10). The calculation used here is the
credit cards, based on a weighting of those products calculated to reflect the average product percentage top two promoters (customers scoring 9 or 10) minus detractors, defined as
distribution across Santander UK and competitor brands. Data shown is for the twelve months percentage bottom seven (customers scoring 0-6) and excluding passives (customers scoring
ended 30 December 2018, based on 13,831 interviews for satisfaction and 13,423 for 7 or 8). This is scored across mortgages, savings, main current accounts, home insurance, UPLs
recommendation. and credit cards, based on a weighting of those products calculated to reflect the average
product distribution across Santander UK and competitor brands