STRATEGIC
REPORT
Directors’
report
Risk
review
and
Capital
review
Financial
statements
Supplementary
information
FINANCIAL KPIS
Return on equity Common Equity Tier 1 ratio Diversity and inclusion
3.5% 13.6%
(cid:181)
320bps
Underlying basis
1.7%
(cid:181) Total shareholder return Employee engagement
280bps
17.6%
Statutory basis
10bps
OTHER FINANCIAL MEASURES
Operating income Profi t before tax Earnings per share
$14,289 m (cid:181) $3,010 m (cid:181) 47.2 cents (cid:181)
3% 175% 43.8 cents
Underlying basis Underlying basis Underlying basis
$14,425 m 3 (cid:181) % $2,415 m 4 (cid:181) 90% 23.5 cents 3 (cid:181) 8 cents
Statutory basis Statutory basis Statutory basis
01
(cid:181)
OUR PURPOSE AND PROGRESS
At Standard Chartered our purpose
is to drive commerce and prosperity
through our unique diversity
In this report we describe our progress in realising this goal and the strategic objectives
we are pursuing to strengthen our business, get closer to our clients and fulfi l the
Group’s potential. We gauge our annual progress against a set of Group key performance
indicators (KPIs), summarised below, as well as Client segment KPIs, some of which are
shown on pages 18 to 21
Throughout this report, we use these icons to represent the different stakeholders groups for whom we create value.
Read more on page 13
Clients Regulators and Investors Colleagues Society
governments
NON FINANCIAL KPIS
Diversity and inclusion:
women in senior roles
25.7%
(cid:181)
+0.8%
Read more on page 05 Read more on page 39
Employee engagement
5.9%
(cid:181)
146%
Read more on page 05 Read more on page 05 Read more on page 39
Read more on page 29 Read more on page 29 Read more on page 29
Contents
Strategic report
02 What we do 18 Client segment reviews 44 Directors’ report
03 Where we do it 23 Regional reviews 116 Risk review and Capital review
04 Chairman’s statement 28 G roup Chief Financial 190 Financial statements
06 Group Chief Executive’s review Offi cer’s review 308 Supplementary information
10 Market environment 33 Group Chief Risk Offi cer’s review
12 Business model 36 Stakeholders and responsibilities
14 Strategy 43 Viability statement
STRATEGIC
REPORT
Directors’
report
Risk
review
and
Capital
review
Financial
statements
Supplementary
information
Where we do it
Building a sustainable
business in dynamic economies
Read more about our regions’
performance on pages 23 to 26
Greater China & North Asia ASEAN & South Asia
Serving clients in China, Hong Kong, Korea, Japan, Our largest markets in ASEAN & South Asia by income
Taiwan and Macau. The Group’s largest region by income. are Singapore and India. We are active in all 10 ASEAN
countries.
Operating income Operating income
$5,616 $5,613 $3,833 $3,870
m m m m
Underlying basis Statutory basis Underlying basis Statutory basis
Africa & Middle East Europe & Americas
Present in 25 markets, of which the most sizeable by Centred in London and New York with a presence across
income are the UAE, Nigeria, Pakistan and Kenya. both continents. Key income originator for the Group.
Operating income Operating income
$2,764 $2,764 $1,601 $1,596
m m m m
Underlying basis Statutory basis Underlying basis Statutory basis
Central & other items (region) Total operating income
Operating income
$475 $582 $14,289 $14,425
m m m m
Underlying basis Statutory basis Underlying basis Statutory basis
Risk & Compliance Group COO Group CFO Corporate Affairs & Brand
Responsible for the Provides control and Incorporates seven support and Marketing
sustainability of our business governance to operating functions: Finance, Treasury, Manages the Group’s
through good management platforms and processes, Strategy, Investor Relations, communications and engagement
of risk across the Group ensuring operating effi ciency Corporate Development, with stakeholders in order to
and ensuring that business Supply Chain and Property. protect and promote the Group’s
is conducted in line with The leaders of these functions reputation, brand and services
regulatory expectations report directly to Andy Halford,
Group Chief Financial Offi cer
03
STRATEGIC REPORT Chairman’s statement
G roup Chairman’s statement
Focused on unlocking potential
while strengthening culture and resilience
In my statement last year – my fi rst as Banking plays a crucial role at the heart of Yet, as Bill Winters describes in his review,
Chairman of the Group – I committed to the economy and in the lives of individuals. many indicators are now changing in a
focus my efforts on three priorities: helping We are privileged to be present in some of positive direction. Economic forecasts have
the Group to unlock its true potential; the most exciting and dynamic economies been upgraded again, with global growth
improving its resilience to shocks; and in the world, which are inhabited by two- broadening and projected to improve this
ensuring excellent governance and the thirds of the world’s population. This unique year and next, and world trade continues to
highest ethical standards. This is critical to position brings with it a tremendous advance at a healthy pace. It is up to us to
achieving sustainable, long-term growth responsibility. Our obligation is to carry continue working hard to identify and seize
and improving long-term value. out our business in a way which not only the opportunities as they arise, becoming
provides returns for our shareholders but more competitive, embracing technological
Unlocking the Group’s potential also delivers good things for society: our change and innovation, and continuing to
clients, communities, and people. All of our develop attractive value propositions for
The Group’s underlying profi t before tax
extensive work in our markets to improve our clients.
trebled in the last year. This is encouraging
standards of conduct and control is aimed
given that the extraordinary engine that At the same time, we should be mindful
at helping to improve the lives of people
sits within the Group is not yet fi ring on of the risks around this favourable outlook.
in the communities where we work,
all its cylinders, but we must improve the These range from the geopolitical situations
through enabling sustainable growth.
result further. in North Korea and the Middle East, and
We complement this with our successful
protectionist fears, to those stemming from
To increase the Group’s returns over the health and education programmes such as
the challenges of normalising monetary
medium term, we need to grow income in a Seeing is Believing (seeingisbelieving.org)
policy in an environment of elevated market
strong, safe and sustainable manner, while and Goal (sc.com/goalprogramme).
valuations and high leverage. The realisation
maintaining both cost and capital discipline.
of some of these risks could provoke sharp
We are confi dent that we can do this. Improving our resilience
market corrections, undermine the global
There are clear links between the global
We have experienced a decade of lower recovery and adversely affect emerging
economy, international banks and trade that
economic growth, subdued world trade, markets that are more leveraged or exhibit
are fundamentally tied to global growth and
low interest rates, stricter regulation and weaker fundamentals. It is essential that we
prosperity. As one of the world’s top-three
increasing competition, including from continue our efforts to increase the Group’s
trade banks, the Group is ideally positioned
the technology sector. Recent political resilience to such potential shocks.
to benefi t from the opportunities that the
controversies about globalisation have
continuing recovery in global trade will bring. I believe the completion by international
further complicated the situation.
standard setters of the international regulatory
capital framework for banks, known as
Basel III, is a positive development for the
industry overall. Although banks, as well as
their investors and clients, do not yet know
precisely how the rules will be applied in
practice, having the framework in place
is an important step towards a more
resilient banking system that supports
the real economy.
Against this backdrop, the Group’s
strengthening position was evident in several
respects in 2017. The quality of our balance
sheet improved signifi cantly, loan impairment
reduced to around half the level it was in
2016, and we passed what was considered
the toughest Bank of England stress test to
date. It is critical that we maintain the focus
and progress into 2018 while – as I said at
this time last year – being willing to adapt
and make the necessary decisions as
conditions evolve.
José Viñals
Group Chairman
04 Standard Chartered
Annual Report 2017
STRATEGIC
REPORT
Directors’
report
Risk
review
and
Capital
review
Financial
statements
Supplementary
information
Financial KPIs Ensuring excellent governance As part of our focus on brand and culture
in 2017, we engaged with our colleagues
The independent, externally facilitated
Underlying return on equity (RoE) around the world to identify the essence of
Board evaluation that I commissioned
what we stand for, who we are and how we
Aim Deliver sustainable improvement in the shortly after becoming Chairman concluded
need to behave to deliver our full potential.
Group’s profi tability as a percentage of the value that the Board is operating effectively and
of shareholders’ equity This led to our invigorated purpose statement
provided useful ideas on how to maximise its
– “Driving commerce and prosperity through
3.5 leadership to the Group. More details can be our unique diversity” – and a refreshed set of
% found in the Directors’ report. valued behaviours. These are designed to
320bps
Towards the end of the year, following the support the Group’s desired culture, drive
departure of Dr Kurt Campbell, Dr Ngozi our transformation and increase our returns
2015 (0.4)% Okonjo-Iweala joined us as an independent and resilience.
2016 0.3% non-executive director. Ngozi has signifi cant The Board continues to oversee far-reaching
geopolitical, economic, risk and development
2017 3.5% changes to transform the Group’s response
experience at a government level and in
to fi nancial crime. This is a critical journey, and
international organisations. She twice served
Analysis Underlying RoE of 3.5 per cent in 2017 we must remain focused on delivering this
was a substantial improvement on 0.3 per cent as Finance Minister in Nigeria, Africa’s largest transformation to provide the foundation for a
in 2016 but further progress is required economy and one of our most signifi cant strong, sustainable business in the long term.
African markets, and was part of the senior
The underlying profi t attributable to ordinary shareholders
expressed as a percentage of average ordinary leadership of the World Bank. I would like to
Dividend
shareholders’ equity take this opportunity to thank Kurt for his
signifi cant contributions to the Group, and In recognition of our increased confi dence in
Capital ratio welcome Ngozi to the Board. the prospects for the Group, I am pleased
Aim Maintain a strong capital base and to report that we are recommending the
We also recently announced the appointment
a Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) ratio resumption of dividends with an 11 cent
of Christine Hodgson as Senior Independent
of 12 to 13 per cent per share distribution in respect of 2017.
Director of the Group, in addition to her
The Board understands the importance of
13.6 current role as Chair of the Remuneration
the ordinary dividend to shareholders and
% Committee. Christine takes over this role from
intends to increase the full year dividend
Naguib Kheraj, who will remain as Deputy
per share over time taking into account the
Chairman and Chair of the Audit Committee.
earnings outlook, group and local regulatory
2015 12.6%
capital requirements and opportunities to
Embedding a culture of
2016 13.6% invest to grow the business.
ethical banking
2017 13.6%
Deeply embedding a culture of ethical Conclusion
Analysis The Group’s CET1 ratio remained banking will ensure we are able to deliver
This is an exciting time to be at Standard
at 13.6 per cent – above the top end of the range for our investors, our clients, our colleagues
Chartered. I remain convinced that if we
The components of the Group’s capital are summarised and our communities. Good conduct – work hard, with dedication, passion and
on page 183 doing business in the right way – can, and
creativeness to seize the opportunities ahead
will, be a powerful differentiator for our Group.
of us, our future will be bright. I look forward
Total shareholder return (TSR) Since I wrote to you in the 2017 Half Year to updating you on our progress in our 2018
Aim Deliver a positive return on shareholders’ Report, I have continued to travel extensively Half Year Report.
investment through share price appreciation across our franchise, meeting our clients,
and dividends paid colleagues, investors, regulators and other
stakeholders. This has reinforced for me
17.6
what an extraordinary organisation we have,
%
10bps with talented and dedicated colleagues and
remarkably strong client relationships.
José Viñals
2015 (35.4)% Group Chairman
2016 17.7% 27 February 2018
2017 17.6%
Analysis The Group’s TSR in the full year 2017
was 17.6 per cent, compared to 17.7 per cent
in 2016 and negative 35.4 per cent in 2015
Combines simple share price appreciation with dividends
paid to show the total return to the shareholder and is
expressed as a percentage
05
STRATEGIC REPORT Business model
B usiness model
A business model
built on long-term relationships
We have a sustainable approach to business and strive to achieve the highest standards of conduct.
Our business model and strategy are built on capturing the opportunities inherent in our unique footprint
by developing deep relationships with clients across our network and in local markets
Developing these relationships means using both our tangible and intangible resources in a sustainable
and respponsible manner,, depployyingg them to maximum imppact on our pprofi tabilityy and returns
Our resources Our purpose makes us different
We aim to use resources in a Our purpose is what sets us apart: we drive commerce and prosperity through our unique
sustainable way, to achieve our diversity. Our strategy helps us achieve our purpose
long-term strategic objectives
Human capital We drive commerce and prosperity through our unique diversity
Our diverse colleagues are our greatest
asset. Being part of the local fabric of
Client focus
our markets means we understand
our clients’ needs and aspirations, Our clients are our business. We build long-term
and how these can be achieved relationships with them
86,000
employees
5,300 corporations, governments, 260,000 business
15,000 non-employed banks and investors banking clients
workers
40,000 commercial 9m individual 7,000 private
46% banking clients clients banking clients
female
Robust risk management
Strong brand
We are here for the long term. Effective risk
We are a leading international banking
management allows us to grow a sustainable
group with over 150 years of history
business
and in many of our markets we are a
household name
International network
Distinct proposition
We have an unparalleled international
network, connecting companies, Our unique understanding of our markets and our
institutions and individuals to, and in extensive international network allow us to offer a
some of the world’s fastest-growing truly tailored proposition to our clients, combining
and most dynamic regions global expertise grounded in local knowledge
Financial strength
With over $600 billion in assets on Sustainable approach to business
our balance sheet, we are a strong,
We promote social and economic development by
trusted partner for our clients
contributing to sustainable economic growth through
Local expertise our core business of banking, by being a responsible
We have a deep knowledge of our company and by investing in our communities
markets and a privileged understanding
of the drivers of the real economy,
offering us insights that can help our For more details on how we deliver on our business model, see our
clients achieve their ambitions Strategy section on page 14
12 SSttaannddaarrdd CChhaarrtteerreedd
Annual Report 2017
13
STRATEGIC
REPORT
Directors’
report
Risk
review
and
Capital
review
Financial
statements
Supplementary
information
What we deliver The value we create
We deliver an extensive set of solutions, products and services, We aim to create long-term value
adapted to the needs of our clients for a broad range of stakeholders,
in a sustainable manner
Global Local
Clients
We enable individuals to
Clients in our global businesses are Country-level relationship managers support grow and protect their wealth.
supported by relationship managers clients in our regional businesses. To ensure We help businesses to trade,
with a global reach effi ciency and consistency, and to enable transact, invest and expand.
greater investment, we have a global We also help a variety of fi nancial
oversight of our systems and products institutions – including banks,
Corporate & public sector clients and
Institutional Banking Retail Banking development organisations –
with their banking needs
Private Banking Commercial Banking Regulators and
governments
We engage with relevant authorities
to play our part in supporting the
See our client segment reviews on pages 18 to 21
effective functioning of the fi nancial
system and the broader economy
Investors
Products and services We aim to deliver robust returns
and long-term sustainable
Retail Products Wealth Management Corporate Finance value for our investors
(cid:188) Deposits (cid:188) Investments (cid:188) Structured and project
Colleagues
(cid:188) Savings (cid:188) Portfolio management fi nancing
We offer colleagues opportunities
(cid:188) Mortgages (cid:188) Insurance and advice (cid:188) Strategic advice to learn and progress. We
(cid:188) Credit cards (cid:188) Planning services (cid:188) Mergers and acquisitions encourage them to improve,
(cid:188) Personal loans innovate, take ownership of their
Transaction Banking Financial Markets careers and succeed together
(cid:188) Cash management (cid:188) Investment
(cid:188) Payments and transactions (cid:188) Risk management Society
(cid:188) Securities services (cid:188) Debt capital markets We strive to operate as a
(cid:188) Trade fi nance products responsible and sustainable
company, driving prosperity
through our core business,
and collaborating with local
partners to promote social
Financial performance
and economic development
Income Profi ts Return on equity
(cid:188) Net interest income Income gained from providing Profi t generated relative
(cid:188) Fee income our products and services to equity invested
(cid:188) Trading income minus expenses and
impairments More detail can be found in our
stakeholders and responsibilities
section on page 36
Group Chief Financial
STRATEGIC REPORT Offi cer’s review
G roup Chief Financial Offi cer’s review continued
Balance sheet and capital continued
IFRS 9 publish a transition report ahead of the fi rst calculation methodology for credit and
The estimated impact of adopting IFRS 9 quarter 2018 interim management statement. operational risk and introduce constraints on
on 1 January 2018 is an increase in credit the estimates banks make when they use
provisions of $1.2 billion and, in line with Final Basel III reforms their internal models for regulatory capital
previous guidance, a reduction in the Group’s In December 2017 the Basel Committee on purposes, and, in some cases, remove the
CET1 ratio by approximately 15 basis points. Banking Supervision published fi nal details of use of internal models. National discretion
Under transitional rules some components of its Basel III reforms. First announced in 2010 and how these reforms might be transposed
IFRS 9 are phased in over fi ve years resulting as a response to the global fi nancial crisis into law make it diffi cult to reliably estimate
in a negligible day-one impact on the CET1 these reforms seek to restore credibility in the impact but based on the 31 December
ratio. More detail on the impact on loan the calculation of RWAs and improve the 2017 balance sheet the Group’s early
impairment as well as the classifi cation and comparability of banks’ capital ratios. These assessment is an increase in RWAs of
measurement of fi nancial instruments is set reforms that are expected to be implemented 10-15 per cent.
out in note 41 on page 304. The Group will in 2022 include changes to the capital
Increase / Increase /
2017 2016 (decrease) (decrease)
$million $million $million %
Loans and advances to banks 81,325 74,669 6,656 9
Loans and advances to customers 285,553 255,896 29,657 12
Other assets 296,623 316,127 (19,504) (6)
Total assets 663,501 646,692 16,809 3
Deposits by banks 35,486 37,612 (2,126) (6)
Customer accounts 411,724 378,302 33,422 9
Other liabilities 164,484 182,120 (17,636) (7)
Total liabilities 611,694 598,034 13,660 2
Total equity 51,807 48,658 3,149 6
Total equity and liabilities 663,501 646,692 16,809 3
Advances to deposits ratio (%) 69.4 67.6 – –
Common equity tier 1 ratio (%) 13.6 13.6 – –
Risk-weighted assets 279,748 269,445 10,303 4
Summary
We have made encouraging progress It is encouraging to see the improvement in The focus now is on ensuring that we share
transforming the Group with good profi tability and the increased balance sheet in the natural sectoral growth in our markets
momentum in key investment areas momentum but there is still a long way to through maintaining and developing
contributing to signifi cant improvements go before returns are at acceptable levels. ever-closer relationships with our clients,
in both underlying and statutory profi ts. Transitioning to a higher quality income and further reducing our costs of funds and
more sustainable business takes time but we realising the benefi ts of our continuing
Competition remains strong and certain
are evidentially heading in the right direction. technology investments.
geopolitical tensions are elevated but
economic conditions are improving and We are investing to enhance controls and
emerging regulatory clarity has allowed improve productivity to make us safer and
us to resume paying dividends. simpler to do business with. Cost effi ciencies
are funding the investments in systems and Andy Halford
processes that will enable us to engage more Group Chief Financial Offi cer
confi dently and effectively with our clients. 27 February 2018
32 Standard Chartered
Annual Report 2017
Group Chief Risk Offi cer’s
STRATEGIC REPORT review
to continue providing services which are number of exposures in Corporate & It also strengthens the Group’s capabilities to
vital to the world economy in a safe and Institutional Banking from oil and gas support understand, articulate and control the nature
sound way services and India. The majority of these and level of risks we take while still effectively
counterparties were on early alert for an serving our clients.
More information about the Group’s commitment extended period prior to transferring to NPL
to fi ghting fi nancial crime can be found at As part of this initiative, a revised Enterprise
and do not indicate any new areas of stress
sc.com/fi ghtingfi nancialcrime Risk Management Framework was approved
for the overall portfolio.
in December 2017, for implementation in 2018.
(cid:188) Improve the risk and compliance
We continue to focus on early identifi cation We are continuing to develop a well-defi ned,
infrastructure – The Group has
of emerging risks so that we can manage healthy risk culture that is understood
multiple initiatives underway to improve
any areas of weakness on a proactive basis. across the Group, as well as a clear control
infrastructure for compliance risk
framework with sharper delineation of
management, exposure management, The cover ratio of NPLs in the ongoing
responsibilities between the three lines of
data quality, stress testing, operational risk business reduced from 69 per cent to
defence. Further details on the Group’s three
management and reporting. We have also 63 per cent, and including collateral
lines of defence model are set out in the
worked to streamline and simplify our improved to 79 per cent from 74 per cent.
Enterprise Risk Management Framework
processes to serve clients better and
Global fi nancial markets experienced low section (page 161). We are also formalising
drive internal effi ciencies
volatility and average Group VaR was the links between our strategy, risk appetite
19 per cent lower than the previous year at and stress testing to facilitate more dynamic
Our risk profi le and performance
$26 million (2016: $32 million). The largest risk identifi cation and develop management
in 2017
operational risk loss recognised as at processes which clearly integrate risk
The quality of our loan book has improved 31 December 2017 relates to the Group’s considerations into strategic decision making.
in 2017, with a focus on better quality new $17.2 million settlement of a United States As part of these changes we have made
origination driving a stronger portfolio across class action brought against a number a number of amendments to our Principal
all business segments, although we remain of banks concerning foreign exchange Risk Types. Specifi cally we have elevated
watchful for any emerging risks. This is benchmark rates. Compliance, Information and Cyber security,
aligned to a more granular risk appetite and Further details of the 2017 risk performance are set Financial crime, and Conduct risk to
enterprise-wide risk management approach. out in the Risk update (pages 120 to 121) and the Principal Risk Types. These were previously
Our capital and liquidity positions remain Risk profi le section (pages 122 to 159) incorporated within the risk sub-types under
strong, with all metrics above regulatory Operational risk. Principal Risk Types are risks
thresholds. The Group’s client exposures An update to our risk that are inherent in our strategy and business
remain predominantly short tenor and our management approach model and have been formally defi ned in
portfolio is well diversifi ed across various the Group’s Enterprise Risk Management
dimensions. It is critical that our risk management Framework. The framework provides a
approach continues to evolve and develop
We have seen a signifi cant decrease in loan structure for the monitoring and control of
to meet the ever-changing risk landscape
impairment across all businesses, with these risks through the Board-approved Risk
facing our business, to ensure it remains
overall loan impairment down 51 per cent Appetite. The Group will not compromise
relevant and effective in generating safe
to $1.4 billion in the last 12 months. adherence to its Risk Appetite in order to
and sustainable performance and growth
pursue revenue growth or higher returns.
Overall gross non-performing loans (NPLs) for the Group. In 2017 we embarked on a The table below shows the Group’s Principal
for the Group have reduced as increases in key initiative to build out the Enterprise Risk Risk Types and how they are managed.
the ongoing book were more than offset by Management function. This allows the Group
planned reductions in the liquidation portfolio. to identify and manage risks holistically, Further details on Principal Risks are set out in the
Gross non-performing loans (NPLs) for the ensuring the appropriate governance, Risk management approach (pages 165 to 178)
ongoing business increased from $5.9 billion oversight and information is in place to run a
to $6.5 billion in 2017, driven by a small safe, secure and well-controlled organisation.
Principal Risk Types How these are managed
Credit risk The Group manages its credit exposures following the principle of diversifi cation across products, geographies, client
segments and industry sectors
Country risk The Group manages its country cross-border exposures following the principle of diversifi cation across geographies and
controls business activities in line with the level of jurisdiction risk
Market risk The Group controls its trading portfolio and activities to ensure that market risk losses (fi nancial or reputational) do not
cause material damage to the Group’s franchise
Capital and liquidity risk The Group maintains a strong capital position including the maintenance of management buffers suffi cient to support its
strategic aims and holds an adequate buffer of high quality liquid assets to survive extreme but plausible liquidity stress
scenarios for at least 60 days without recourse to extraordinary central bank support
Operational risk The Group controls operational risks to ensure that operational losses (fi nancial or reputational), including any related to
conduct of business matters, do not cause material damage to the Group's franchise
Reputational risk The Group protects the franchise from material damage to its reputation by ensuring that any business activity is
satisfactorily assessed and managed by the appropriate level of management and governance oversight
Compliance The Group has no appetite for breaches in laws and regulations, recognising that whilst regulatory breaches or non-
compliance are unwanted, they cannot be entirely avoided
Conduct The Group strives to maintain the standards in our Code of Conduct and outcomes of our Conduct Framework, by
continuously demonstrating that we “Do The Right Thing” in the way we do business
Information and The Group seeks to avoid risk and uncertainty for our critical information assets and systems and has a low appetite for
cyber security material incidents affecting these or the wider operations and reputation of the bank
Financial crime The Group has no appetite for breaches in laws and regulations related to Financial crime, recognising that whilst
incidents are unwanted, they cannot be entirely avoided
1 Pension risk is now a risk sub-type of Market risk and Strategic risk has been integrated as part of the overall Enterprise Risk Management Framework. Further details of updates to
our Principal Risk Types are discussed in the Principal Risks section (pages 165 to 178)
34 Standard Chartered
Annual Report 2017
35
STRATEGIC
REPORT
Directors’
report
Risk
review
and
Capital
review
Financial
statements
Supplementary
information
Principal uncertainties
The revised Enterprise Risk Management Framework will provide a consolidated way of managing risk, and result in more proactive
conversations about strategic risk. We have continued to roll out a more granular and well-defi ned risk appetite which enables our business to
grow in a strong and sustainable manner, but we are aware of principal uncertainties on the horizon that are not fully clear and measurable.
Here is a summary of the principal uncertainties that the Group faces, and the steps that we are taking to manage them.
Risk trend
Principal uncertainties1 since 2016 How these are mitigated/next steps
Geopolitical events, in particular: (cid:188) We continuously monitor and assess geopolitical events and, where appropriate, manage
increase in trade protectionism, the impact to the Group and our clients.
Korean peninsula geopolitical (cid:188) We conduct stress tests and portfolio reviews at a Group, country and business level to
tensions, the Middle East assess the impact of extreme but plausible geopolitical events.
political situation and post-Brexit
implications
Macroeconomic conditions, in (cid:188) We have a Business Risk Horizon framework that provides a 12- to 18-month forward view
particular: moderation of growth of the economic, business and credit conditions across our key markets, enabling us to take
in key footprint markets led by proactive action.
China and sharp interest rate (cid:188) We monitor economic trends and conduct stress tests and portfolio reviews at a Group,
rises and asset corrections country and business level to assess the impact of extreme but plausible events.
Climate-related physical risks NEW (cid:188) We are developing an approach for assessing energy utilities clients’ power generation
and transition risks2 assets against a range of physical and transition risks, under multiple climate scenarios and
a range of time horizons. We are considering how we extend this to other sectors in 2018.
(cid:188) We have made a public commitment to fund and facilitate $4 billion toward clean technology
between 2016 and 2020.
Regulatory reviews and (cid:188) We have invested in improving compliance controls, including increasing the capacity and
investigations, legal proceedings capability of compliance resources, enhancing systems and controls, and implementing
remediation programmes (where relevant).
(cid:188) We are cooperating with all relevant ongoing reviews, requests for information and
investigations and we actively manage legal proceedings, including in respect of
legacy issues.
Regulatory changes and (cid:188) We monitor regulatory initiatives across our footprint to identify any potential impact and
tax reforms change to our business model.
(cid:188) We have established specifi c regulatory programmes to ensure effective and effi cient
implementation of changes required by new, or changes in existing, regulations.
New technologies and digitisation NEW (cid:188) We continuously monitor developments in the technology space affecting the banking sector
and the Group Management Team is exploring in more depth our approach to innovation.
(cid:188) We are engaged in a series of initiatives with the aim of building our capabilities to ensure we
remain relevant in a position to capitalise rapidly on technology trends.
Risk heightened in 2017 Risk remained consistent with 2016 levels
1 Principal uncertainties refer to unpredictable and uncontrollable outcomes from certain events and circumstances which may have the potential to impact our business materially
2 Physical risks refer to the risk of increased extreme weather events while transition risks refer to the risk of changes to market dynamics due to governments’ response to
climate change
Cyber risk now forms part of our Principal Risk Types which we control and mitigate through distinct risk type frameworks, policies and
risk appetite.
Further details on Principal uncertainties, including key changes in respect of 2016, are set out in the RIsk Management Approach (pages 179 to 182)
Conclusion
We continue to make strides in building a sustainable franchise in the interests of all our stakeholders. In order to drive commerce and prosperity,
our organisation must take a long-term view by putting the needs of our clients fi rst, supported by the right culture, people and practices.
Though there will be headwinds along the way, we will continue with our mission to be an industry leader championing trust, integrity and quality.
Mark Smith
Group Chief Risk Offi cer
27 February 2018
Stakeholders and
STRATEGIC REPORT responsibilities
S takeholders and responsibilities
Our stakeholders
To drive commerce and prosperity Our stakeholders
across our footprint, we need to
take a long-term view. Listening Regulators
and responding to stakeholder Clients and governments
issues or concerns is critical to
How we serve and engage How we serve and engage
achieving this. We strive to maintain
open and constructive relationships We enable individuals to grow and protect We engage with relevant authorities to
their wealth. We help businesses to trade, play our part in supporting the effective
with a wide range of stakeholders
transact, invest and expand. We also help functioning of the fi nancial system and the
to help us operate as a responsible a variety of fi nancial institutions – including broader economy
and sustainable business banks, public sector and development
organisations – with their banking needs
We engage in regular dialogue with
stakeholders, and track and assess
long- and short-term issues based on
their impact on our business and level of
stakeholder concern. Stakeholder feedback
is shared with the senior leaders within the
Our strategy is dependent on our ability to We are committed to complying with all
Group and progress is communicated
develop deep, long-term relationships with legislation, rules and other regulatory
annually through channels such as this
our clients. We aim to deliver fair outcomes requirements applicable to our businesses
report. This helps inform our business
for clients by designing products and and operations in the jurisdictions within
strategy and build sound relationships in
delivering services that meet their needs which we operate. Our compliance with
the markets where we operate.
and are appropriate to their circumstances. legal and regulatory frameworks across
Where issues arise, we aim to deal with our markets ensures that the Group meets
complaints in a fast, fair and effi cient way. its obligations. In turn, this supports the
We have sector-specifi c procedures resilience and effective functioning of the
and processes in place to handle client Group and the broader fi nancial system
complaints in each business segment. and economy. On a day-to-day basis, our
Compliance and Public Affairs functions
Engagement with clients in 2016, through
are responsible for identifying changes to
surveys, client experience forums and
fi nancial services regulation, ensuring that
third-party studies, identifi ed a need to
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT we comply with all requirements, and help
simplify our processes. As a result, in 2017,
to manage relationships.
we improved the customer experience
Empowering girls
across our businesses through continued We actively engage with governments,
and young women investment in technology innovation and regulators and policymakers at a global,
streamlined processes. Client feedback regional and national level to share insights
More than 130 delegates from the on this indicates we are moving in the and technical expertise on key policy issues.
public, private and not-for-profi t sectors right direction. This engagement supports the development
attended our fi rst Beyond Girls’ of best practice and the adoption of
Education Summit in South Africa For more information about our clients, read the consistent approaches across our markets.
Client segment reviews on pages 18 to 21
in 2017. The event provided insights We comply with all relevant transparency
from advocacy, technology and requirements and engage with governments
education programmes including Goal, and regulators in many ways, including
our programme to empower girls through ongoing dialogue, submission of
through sports and life-skills training, responses to formal consultations and
and generated 45 new commitments by joining and participating in industry
to help young women move from working groups.
education to employment.
In 2017, we engaged with policymakers at
all levels to exchange information on topics
such as prudential rules, Brexit and trade
promotion, Fintech, cyber security and
fi ghting fi nancial crime.
36 Standard Chartered
Annual Report 2017
37
STRATEGIC
REPORT
Directors’
report
Risk
review
and
Capital
review
Financial
statements
Supplementary
information
Investors Colleagues
How we serve and engage How we serve and engage employee networks and three
Global Networks (Women, Disability and
We aim to deliver robust returns and We offer colleagues opportunities to learn
LGBT & Allies). These networks raise
long-term sustainable value for our investors and progress. We encourage them to
awareness and offer professional
improve and innovate, to take ownership
development, mentoring, networking
of their careers and succeed together
and connections to our communities.
In 2017, the Board Remuneration
Committee agreed a Fair Pay Charter,
which sets out the principles that guide
all of our reward and performance
decision making. One of these principles
is our ongoing commitment to rewarding
colleagues in a way that is free from
The Group receives capital from equity and The strength of our diversity
discrimination on the basis of diversity, debt investors. This supports the execution With more than 86,000 colleagues in 63
including gender. Full details of our Fair
of our business model. Our investor base markets, we are proud to represent the broad
Pay Charter are set out on page 84 in
includes active traders and long-term range of cultures across the communities we
the Directors’ remuneration report.
stakeholders, those interested solely in serve. Harnessing the inherent diversity of
fi nancial returns and those who are also thoughts, views and experiences across the Gender pay gap
concerned with environmental and social Group is critical to our business success
We have analysed our gender pay gap for
issues. As such, we engage with investors and fundamental to our purpose. We are
the UK and for four of our major markets.
about all aspects of our fi nancial, committed to creating a work environment
The gender pay gap compares the average
environmental and social performance. that enables our colleagues’ diverse strengths
pay of men and women, without taking into Whatever the nature of the investor, we to impact our clients and communities.
account some of the key factors which
treat them equally and aim to balance their
Our vision is to create a culture of inclusion infl uence pay, including different roles, skills,
diverse interests and expectations.
where talents and individuality are valued seniority and market pay rates. Our gender
We communicate with investors in several and respected, and we are working hard to pay gap is caused by the lower number
ways, including presenting scheduled results realise this. Our global Diversity and Inclusion of women in senior roles and in business
and via ad hoc media releases. We also meet Council ensures we continue our collective areas where market rates of pay (both fi xed
investors at the Annual General Meeting and focus on creating an organisation where and variable) are highest.
at investor meetings and conferences, while everyone feels supported and empowered.
When adjusting the hourly pay gap for men
our inclusion in sustainability indices, such
In 2017, we introduced a standard fl exible and women carrying out roles at the same
as the Dow Jones Sustainability Index and
working practice to ensure all colleagues level in the same business area across
the FTSE4Good, provides investors with
have the opportunity to choose how they the same markets, the gender pay gap
independent benchmarking data on our
work, whether that is part-time, fl exible time, is signifi cantly smaller – ranging from no performance in these areas.
or working from home. discernible gap to three per cent.
During 2017, acting on investor feedback
We increased the benefi ts we offer new Equal pay is a more detailed measure of
for more access to the people running our
parents globally, fully paid maternity leave pay equality than the gender pay gap.
businesses, we hosted two investor seminars
from a minimum of 40 days to a minimum of We also analyse equal pay as part of the at our London offi ce. These seminars
20 weeks, and increasing fully paid parental annual performance and pay review
presented an opportunity to understand
leave for the spouse or partner increasing process globally.
better the strategy for our largest geographic
region, Greater China & North Asia, and from a minimum of two days to two weeks. Download our gender pay gap report at
We also support over 50 country-based sc.com/genderpaygap
our largest client segment, Corporate &
Institutional Banking, and to hear directly
from the teams managing them.
For more information about Board engagement
UK Hong Kong Singapore UAE US
with shareholders in 2017, see page 61 in the
Corporate governance section Mean hourly pay gap 30% 33% 39% 31% 24%
Mean bonus pay gap 57% 56% 55% 64% 53%
UK Hong Kong Singapore UAE US
Jobs at same level and business area 3% -1% 2% 0% 3%
Stakeholders and
STRATEGIC REPORT responsibilities
S takeholders and responsibilities continued
Our stakeholders
Colleagues continued
The Group does not discriminate based on colleagues to determine the valued In 2018, as part of the commitments in our
gender and we have made progress in behaviours that clearly set out how we Fair Pay Charter, we will be rolling out a new
addressing the gender pay gap, but we are achieve these goals, and ultimately our benefi ts platform which will empower our
clear that we have more to do. We have a purpose to drive commerce and prosperity colleagues to choose the benefi ts which most
range of actions in place. through our unique diversity. In 2018, we will suit their needs. This will accompany our
fully embed these valued behaviours in how Wellbeing programme, which supports the
We have signed the UK HM Treasury Women
we select, on-board, recognise and reward physical, mental, social and fi nancial health of
in Finance Charter and are committed to
people, beginning with integrating them into our colleagues. We have a strong belief that if
women occupying 30 per cent of our senior
our performance management process. we treat our colleagues well by looking after all
leadership roles by 2020. Since signing the
aspects of their wellbeing, they will be happier
Charter, we have seen an increase in female Our aim is to create a truly differentiated
and more productive at work.
representation in our senior management working environment and we are committed
from 25.5 per cent to 25.7 per cent during to measuring progress against this goal.
Female representation
2017. At Board level, 30.8 per cent of We aim to increase the engagement and
members are women and our Management retention of our colleagues and mitigate Board
Team is comprised of 42.9 per cent women. against our key people risk of attrition.
Female
Two of our four regions and fi ve of our largest We have developed a culture dashboard 30.8% 2017
markets – Hong Kong, Singapore, India, to track progress against these measures. 2016
China and Nigeria – are run by female CEOs. (2016: 23.1%)
Developing colleagues
Alongside improving our fl exible working
We continue to focus on the development,
practices and parental leave, we have built
engagement and wellbeing of our colleagues
requirements into our policies and processes
and we have maintained a strong focus on
to ensure that managers are making objective
talent and succession management.
and fair decisions, including gender balanced
candidate lists for hiring. We review promotion In 2017, we introduced a talent evaluation tool Management Team
lists and succession plans to ensure we have which was completed for over 22,000 of our
Female
adequate diverse representation. colleagues and used as an input to mid-year 42.9% 2017
We have also introduced training for
performance and career conversations. At
(2016: 38.5%)
2016
senior levels, we completed succession plans
managers with the objective of minimising
for 16 roles at Management Team level and
unconscious bias. Beyond gender, we are
their direct reports, and development plans
also committed to ensuring our colleagues
are in place for all individuals appearing on
are refl ective of the communities we serve,
these plans. We successfully completed a
including nationality, ethnicity, disability,
regional talent development programme for
generations and sexual orientation.
our Africa & Middle East region, which will act
All our diversity and inclusion initiatives, as a blueprint for our development of country, Senior management (Bands 1-4)
including the management focus on region and global business talent pools. Female
increasing the number of women in senior 25.7%
2017
roles in line with our Women in Finance
I
c
n
a
2
p
0
a
1
b
8
ili
,
t i
o
e
u
s
r
a
f
n
o
d
c u
d
s
e
i
v
s
e
o
lo
n
p
b
in
u
g
il d
ro
in
le
g
-
l
b
in
a
e
s e
m
d
a nager
(2016: 25.5%)
2016
Charter commitment, implementing fl exible
learning curricula, as well as developing
working practices globally, providing
our assessment tools to hire more people
leadership development and mentoring,
internally, with an internal target of fi lling
and extending our parental leave benefi ts
70 per cent of Band 4 – Grade 7 roles with
will help us to improve our diversity in senior
internal candidates.
management roles and across all our
business areas. Our efforts to increase the development All employees
and career opportunities of our colleagues
Female
Transforming our culture are refl ected in an improvement in our 45.8% 2017
In 2016, we began the process of employee Net Promoter Score, which is four 2016
transforming our culture – ensuring we percentage points higher year-on-year. We (2016: 46.4%)
become truly focused on our clients, more have also started to track satisfaction with
innovative and effi cient in a sector undergoing development opportunities through our
profound change, as well asbeing an engagement survey and realise there is
employer of choice across our markets. potential to make more improvements
In 2017, we engaged with over 70,000 this year.
38 Standard Chartered
Annual Report 2017
39
STRATEGIC
REPORT
Directors’
report
Risk
review
and
Capital
review
Financial
statements
Supplementary
information
Society
Employee How we serve and engage opportunities associated with sustainable
development are captured in our
engagement KPI We strive to operate as a responsible and
Aspirations. They include targets to expand
sustainable business, collaborating with
digital and fi nancial inclusion, support
Employee Net Promoter Score local partners to promote social and
infrastructure and clean technology
(eNPS) economic development
development, and support microfi nance
Aim Increase engagement across the Group institutions.
by creating a better working environment for
our colleagues, that should translate into an
Managing environmental
improved client experience.
and social risks
5.9 Our most signifi cant environmental and
% social (E&S) impact comes from the
+146%
businesses we fi nance. We have E&S risk
Responsible and sustainable management procedures that guide how
2016 2.4% business we identify, assess and manage the risks
impacting our clients’ operations. We apply
2017 5.9% This section outlines our response to sector-specifi c standards, which draw on
reporting requirements on environmental and the IFC Performance Standards, Equator
The proportion of participating colleagues that are social matters, human rights, and anti-bribery Principles and global best practice, to the
promoters (would recommend the Group as a great and corruption. We will continue to enhance fi nancial services we provide to clients.
place to work) compared to detractors our reporting on these issues over time. These are set out in 17 sectoral and
Analysis In 2017, the fi rst year that the Group
Our sustainability priorities – contributing three thematic Position Statements
introduced this measure, the eNPS was
5.9 per cent, meaning that more participating to sustainable economic growth, being that are embedded through our core colleagues would promote the Group than a responsible company and investing in banking processes.
would not. communities – provide a framework for how Mechanisms in our origination and credit
we respond to the social and environmental processes enable us to identify and
Diversity and concerns of our stakeholders, and create assess environmental and social risks in
inclusion KPI opportunities to improve livelihoods. accordance with our Position Statements.
These are supported by 11 Sustainability In 2017, our dedicated Environmental and
Gender diversity in senior roles Aspirations, which set out measurable Social Risk Management team reviewed
actions to achieve sustainable outcomes. 487 transactions that presented potential
Aim Improve gender diversity in the Group’s
Aligned to the UN Sustainable Development specifi c risks against our Position
top levels of management by supporting,
developing, promoting and retaining senior Goals, the Aspirations were launched in Statements. For all risks identifi ed, we seek
women colleagues. 2017 to help address environmental and to develop effective mitigating measures.
social matters identifi ed by stakeholders and Where this is not possible, transactions
25.7 colleagues in our key markets. We report have been, and will continue to be,
% progress against the Aspirations in our turned down.
+0.8% separate Sustainability Summary. We work collaboratively with clients, other
fi nancial institutions, industry bodies, and
Download our Sustainability Aspirations at
2016 25.5% sc.com/sustainabilityaspirations civil society groups, to promote, develop
and encourage leading E&S standards. In
2017 25.7% 2017, we engaged with these stakeholders
Contributing to sustainable
primarily on palm oil and climate change.
economic growth This dialogue contributed to the update of
The total number of women in the most senior
(band 1-4) roles expressed as a percentage of We use our core business of banking our Palm Oil Position Statement in 2017.
total band 1-4 roles
to promote sustainable development in We continued to advance the commitments
Analysis In 2016, we signed the UK HM
our markets. This means managing set out in 2016 in our Climate Change
Treasury Women in Finance Charter and
environmental and social risks associated Position Statement. This includes work
announced an overall target of having women
occupy 30 per cent of our top four levels of with our lending, and fi nancing key sectors with the University of Oxford to develop
management by December 2020. The that drive sustainable economic growth. and implement a framework for assessing
25.7 per cent result in 2017 was an improvement energy utilities clients’ power generation
Our approach to managing environmental
on 2016 and takes us closer to our target. assets against a range of physical and
and social risks is set out below. Additional
transition risks, under different climate
information on how we fi nance the
scenarios and time horizons.
Stakeholders and
STRATEGIC REPORT responsibilities
S takeholders and responsibilities continued
Our stakeholders
Society continued
Additionally, we welcomed the Our whistleblowing channels are available to In 2017, 99.3 per cent of colleagues
recommendations by the Financial Stability anyone – colleagues, contractors, suppliers completed ABC training and 99.2 per cent
Board’s Taskforce on Climate-related and members of the public – to raise completed anti-money laundering training.
Financial Disclosures. We joined a United concerns confi dentially and anonymously. For more, visit
Nations Environment Programme for Following the re-launch of our Speaking Up sc.com/fi ghtingfi nancialcrime
Financial Institutions’ initiative to develop programme in late 2016, we have seen
analytical tools and indicators to strengthen an increase in the number of concerns
Respecting human rights
assessment and disclosure of climate- raised, which were investigated accordingly.
We are committed to respecting human
related risks and opportunities. In 2017, we also introduced Speaking Up
rights and seek to ensure they are not
Advocates in three pilot countries to help
In 2017, we started a review of all our Position adversely impacted in our role as an
raise awareness and ensure Speaking Up
Statements, with updated and revised employer, fi nancial services provider and
is culturally relevant across our diverse
statements due to be published during 2018. procurer of goods and services. We
geographic footprint.
Read our Position Statements at recognise that our footprint and supply chain
sc.com/positionstatements Download our Group Code of Conduct at give us the opportunity to raise awareness of
sc.com/codeofconduct
human rights and modern slavery in a wide
range of markets and industries.
Being a responsible company
Fighting fi nancial crime
Our Position Statement outlines our
Being a responsible company is about how Financial crime hinders economic progress
approach to human rights, refl ecting
we manage our business and promote the and harms communities. We are committed
international standards including the
behaviours, values and principles that enable to building and maintaining robust defences
International Bill of Human Rights, the UN
us to make the right decisions. to combat money-laundering, terrorist
Guiding Principles, and the UK Modern
fi nancing, sanctions compliance breaches,
Good conduct management practices are Slavery Act. This is then embedded across
bribery, and other forms of corruption.
embedded across the Group through our a range of policies and risk management
conduct management framework, which Our fi nancial crime risk management frameworks, including our Group Code of
sets out our approach to identifying, activities, which include adherence to Conduct and Supplier Charter.
controlling and governing conduct-related anti-money laundering and sanctions
In 2017, we reviewed our exposure to
risks. The framework aims to ensure we policies and the application of core controls
modern slavery risks via a cross-function
have appropriate governance in place with such as client due-diligence screening and
working group, and assessed how these
a transparent business model, robust monitoring, are led by a dedicated Financial
are addressed by our existing controls for
infrastructure and exemplary business Crime Compliance (FCC) team. Our
colleagues, suppliers and clients. Our 2017
practices. This creates an environment that anti-bribery and corruption (ABC) policies
Modern Slavery Statement details the
supports ethical behaviour. Governance aim to prevent colleagues, or third parties
actions we are taking as a result. These
measures support leaders in hiring and working on our behalf, from participating in
include updating contractual language to
recognising colleagues with good conduct, active or passive bribery or corruption, or
strengthen supplier obligations to address
while performance objectives and reward from making facilitation payments.
modern slavery, and incorporating modern
mechanisms for colleagues are directly
In 2017, we strengthened our ABC policies slavery awareness into our Correspondent
linked to behaviours and values. Managing
around employing referred candidates, Banking Academy training programme.
the business in this way helps us to achieve
fair outcomes for clients, and to operate screening suppliers, third-party payments, Read our Supplier Charter at
gifts and entertainment, sponsorship and sc.com/suppliercharter and our 2017 Modern
effective markets.
donations, and risk management of Slavery Statement at sc.com/modernslavery
Colleagues participate in mandatory training intermediaries. We also extended training
on the Group Code of Conduct and in 2017, for FCC country heads to equip them with
99.4 per cent reconfi rmed their commitment better knowledge, skills and tools to manage
to the Code as part of our annual process. and oversee ABC risk mitigation activities.
Failure to adhere to the Code can result in
disciplinary action and potentially dismissal.
Employees who completed
Colleagues who committed to the anti-money laundering Employees who completed
Group Code of Conduct in 2017 training in 2017 anti-bribery training in 2017
99.4 99.2 99.3
% % %
40 Standard Chartered
Annual Report 2017
41
STRATEGIC
REPORT
Directors’
report
Risk
review
and
Capital
review
Financial
statements
Supplementary
information
Managing our environmental footprint months. We avoid sending non-recyclable
ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE We aim to minimise the environmental waste to landfi ll, instead composting it or
Managing our footprint impact of our operations. Our major impact using it in energy generation, where possible.
comes from the resources we consume in
Our offi ce in Nairobi, Kenya, is trialling serving clients – energy, water and paper – Investing in communities
a carbon-neutral biofuel for its on-site to allow our offi ces and branches to function,
We seek to promote sustainable economic
diesel generators that is made from and as such we measure our energy,
and social development in our communities.
the abundant, but inedible croton nut. water, paper and (non-hazardous) waste
Our programmes focus on health and
It is one of several initiatives to boost performance.
education. In 2017, we invested $49.8 million
the building’s environmental effi ciency;
We have targets against which we measure in the communities in which we operate.
others include LED lights and solar and manage our greenhouse gas emissions, All of our donations are guided by our
photo-voltaic panels to offset power
and reduction targets for water and energy Sponsorship and Donations Policy.
usage, and a water recycling plant
use. Our reporting criteria sets out the
to reduce resource use. Seeing is Believing, our fl agship global
principles and methodology, and our programme to treat avoidable blindness and
Scope 1 and 2 emissions are independently
visual impairment, raised $5.6 million in 2017
audited by The Carbon Trust.
through employee fundraising and matching
Between 2008 and 2017, we reduced by the Bank. Between 2003 and 2017,
energy consumption by 34 per cent by Seeing is Believing raised $98.4 million
introducing LED lighting, more effi cient plant, and reached 163.5 million people through
and by increasing on-site solar generation medical intervention, screening, training
across our properties. In 2017, greenhouse and education.
gas emissions for fuel combustion fell by
Goal, our programme to empower girls and
42 per cent as we reduced our reliance on
young women through sport and life-skills
diesel generators in those countries with
training, refl ects our belief that education is
limited access to mains electricity.
the foundation for economic opportunity.
We take a responsible approach to sourcing In 2017, more than 95,000 girls and young
Annual energy use of our property and using water, especially given that its women participated in Goal, and the
(kWh/m2/year)
availability is a growing challenge facing programme reached more than 381,000
Tropical climate1 our markets. Across the Group, between girls between 2006 and 2017.
2008 and 2017, we reduced water use by
We encourage colleagues to effect positive
355 36 per cent by installing low-fl ow water
2008 devices and where appropriate, boreholes change in their communities by providing
256 three volunteering days per year, and in 2017,
and water recycling plants.
2017 colleagues contributed more than 66,000
230 We are committed to reducing waste and days. Through our fi nancial education
2019 (target) in 2017 a ‘reusable cup’ initiative in the programmes, we trained more than
28 Singapore and London offi ces cut single- 117,000 young people and just over
% since use plastic cup use by 100,000 in six 1,500 entrepreneurs in 2017, of whom
2008 90 per cent were women.
Our community expenditure 2017 (%)
Temperate climate1
1. Leverage1 10.0% 1
398
2008 2. Management costs 9.0% 2
277
2017 3. Gifts in kind 3
275 (non-cash item) 0.2% 4
2019 (target) $49.8m
4. Cash contributions 44.5%
30
5. Employee time
% since
2008 (non-cash item) 36.3%
5
1. Leverage data relates to the proceeds
1. Tropical energy usage relates to cooling; temperate energy
from staff and other fundraising activity
usage relates to both heating and cooling
45
Strategic
report
DIRECTORS’
REPORT
Risk
review
and
Capital
review
Financial
statements
Supplementary
information
Directors’ report
46 Chairman’s letter
47 Board of Directors
50 Management Team
53 Corporate governance
83 Directors’ remuneration report
95 Additional remuneration disclosures
103 Directors’ remuneration policy
107 Other disclosures
OUR COLLEAGUES
115 Statement of directors’ responsibilities
Improving practices
in ship recycling
Roger Charles | Director, Environment Social Risk Management | Singapore
Having spent over 15 years working with oil and gas tankers as an engineer,
Roger Charles, now a colleague at Standard Chartered, is working to improve
practices in one of the world’s most hazardous industries: ship recycling.
“The easy thing would be for
Standard Chartered to walk away,
but we want to improve conditions.”
Ship recycling employs an estimated 200,000 workers in Bangladesh,
with around a million people directly or indirectly related to the industry.
While it’s an important economic growth driver in emerging markets,
we recognise that there are environmental and social challenges associated
with the industry, including hazardous environments for workers. As a large
international bank, we want to do what we can to help improve the industry.
“The easy thing would be for Standard Chartered to walk away, but we want
to improve conditions, and we understand that, with industries such as this,
it’s not going to happen overnight,” says Roger.
In return for our lending, the shipyards we work with have agreed to follow
internationally recognised environmental, health and safe working practices.
This includes providing safety training programmes, protective clothing, fair
working hours and regular health checks.
So that we can monitor progress, an independent environmental consultancy
audits clients annually, and Roger visits clients at least twice a year. His industry
experience means he knows what safety and environmental aspects to look
out for and, having once forged a career in building ships, he knows his way
around one.
One of our clients, PHP, has just achieved compliance with the Hong Kong
Convention, a set of internationally recognised ship recycling standards. It’s the
fi rst step for Bangladesh to become compliant and Roger sees this as a game
changer. “I’m proud to be a part of this team of industry experts. The fact that
Standard Chartered employs people like me shows it understands that
environmental social management underpins good business.”
DIRECTORS’ REPORT Chairman’s letter
C hairman’s letter
“It is incumbent on the Board to ensure
that the Group’s unique culture and
values are further strengthened”
This year we have made positive steps on our journey to improve our fi nancial strength, BOARD COMPOSITION
culture and conduct agenda, and ensure these remain on a sustainable footing for the
future. This work is ongoing as the external trends impacting the banking sector continue
Gender diversity
to evolve. The Board has maintained its oversight of the execution of the Group’s strategy
throughout the year and we remain confi dent that it will deliver sustainable shareholder Board
value and a stronger organisation for our clients, colleagues, regulators and the
communities in which we operate. As part of those discussions the Group’s purpose and Female Male
values were considered and further shaped, which has led to our invigorated purpose 4 31% 9
statement, ‘Driving commerce and prosperity through our unique diversity’. I believe this
(2016: 23%)
typifi es the essence of what we stand for and who we are. I remain convinced that
Standard Chartered is a force for good in the countries and regions in which we operate
and it is therefore incumbent on the Board to ensure that the Group’s unique culture and
values are further strengthened.
Executive
Along with other members of the Board I have continued to travel extensively across our
markets during the year, visiting many parts of the network, listening to the views and Female Male
aspirations of our clients and other stakeholders, and seeing fi rst-hand the extent to which 0 0% 2
the Group is so deeply rooted in the real economy, supporting trade and fi nance across (2016: 0%)
our many dynamic markets. The opportunities which exist across these markets are
substantial and we remain well-placed to deliver for our clients and wider stakeholders.
We held four of our Board meetings this year in our markets, Hong Kong, New York,
Singapore and Dubai, providing an opportunity for the Board to see how the strategy is
translating on the ground and engage directly with our colleagues, shareholders, clients, INED (incl Chair)
regulators and others. I hosted our fi rst Global Chairmen’s Conference, which was
Female Male
well-attended by independent chairmen and senior independent directors from Group 4 36% 7
subsidiaries across our markets. More detail on the conference can be found on page 62.
(2016: 27%)
Last year I highlighted my intention to carry out a review of the Board during 2017. In March,
we commissioned an externally facilitated review of the Board and its committees to assist
in providing external input into their functioning and identify areas to enhance our overall Experience
effectiveness. Details of the process, outcomes and actions are set out on page 60.
International Representation Banking, risk,
The Governance and Nomination Committee has been particularly focused on succession
experience from key fi nance,
planning and strengthening the non-executive director and management pipeline during markets accounting
the course of the year. Details on this and the wider work of the Committee are set out experience
on pages 76 to 79. The composition of the Board has continued to evolve; in July, Kurt amongst INEDs
Campbell stepped down from the Board after four years, to focus more time to his other
business interests; and in November, Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala joined the Board as an
69% 31% 70%
independent non-executive director. Ngozi is an internationally renowned economist and a
(2016: 69%) (2016: 23%) (2016: 60%)
prominent African leader. Details of Ngozi’s experience and skills can be found on page 49.
A more recent change saw the appointment on 1 February 2018 of Christine Hodgson
as Senior Independent Director in addition to her role as Chair of the Remuneration
INED tenure
Committee. She took over the role from Naguib Kheraj, who remains as Deputy Chairman
and Chair of the Audit Committee.
1
The Board took the decision at half year to tender the statutory audit contract in 2017 for 0-1 years 10%
the year ending 31 December 2020. A thorough tender process took place in the second
half of the year, led by the Audit Committee, full details on the process followed during the 3
tender process can be found on page 65. 1-3 years 30%
5
3-6 years 50%
1
6-9 years 10%
José Viñals
Further details on the work of the Governance and
Group Chairman
Nomination Committee can be found on page 76
46 Standard Chartered
Annual Report 2017
DIRECTORS’ REPORT Board of directors
Appointed: January 2016 Career: David spent his career in executive offi cer and director in 2002.
the fi nancial services industry, living He implemented a strategy of growth
Experience: David has signifi cant
and working across Asia for 37 years, and led the bank through a period of
global and corporate, investment
for both Citibank and OCBC Bank. signifi cant turbulence. David stepped
and retail banking experience,
He joined Citibank in 1976 as a down as chief executive offi cer in
strong risk management credentials
management trainee and went on to 2012 but remained as a non-
and an in-depth knowledge of
hold a number of Asia-based senior executive director on the board of
Asian markets.
management roles, including chief OCBC Bank, before leaving the
External appointments: David executive offi cer of Citibank India and group in 2014.
is a non-executive director of managing director and marketing
Committees: Ri A N C
GasLog Ltd. manager at Citibank Japan, before
David is also a member of the Combined
leaving Citibank in 2002. David joined US Operations Risk Committee of
David Conner (69)
OCBC Bank in Singapore as chief Standard Chartered Bank
Independent Non-Executive Director
Appointed: September 2013 and Enterprise Company Ltd, a Capgemini UK plc and chief
Senior Independent Director in government-backed company executive offi cer of technology
February 2018 established to help inspire and services for North West Europe.
prepare young people for the Christine was previously a trustee
Experience: Christine has strong
world of work. of MacIntyre Care and was a
business leadership, fi nance,
non-executive director of Ladbrokes
accounting and technology Career: Christine held a number
Coral Group plc before stepping
experience. of senior positions at Coopers &
down in May 2017.
Lybrand and was corporate
External appointments:
development director of Ronson plc Committees: R A V N C
Christine is chair of Capgemini UK
before joining Capgemini in 1997,
plc, sits on the board of The Prince of
where she held a variety of roles
Wales’ Business in the Community
Christine Hodgson (53) and is chair of The Careers & including chief fi nancial offi cer for
Senior Independent Director
Appointed: April 2015 Thomson Financial in 1994, established charities. In 2010, she
becoming managing director of the was appointed as Save the Children’s
Experience: Jasmine has signifi cant
Electronic Settlements Group. After fi rst international chief executive
business leadership experience as
completing the Stanford Executive offi cer, where she led the merger of
well as fi rst-hand experience of
Program, Jasmine set up one of 14 separate organisations into one
operating across our markets.
Oxfam’s fi rst regional offi ces, management line of 15,000 people
External appointments: Jasmine managing nine country operations across seven regions and 60
is chief executive of London First in West Africa, later becoming countries, while aligning the
and a non-executive director of international director responsible for federation behind a single mission
BT Group plc. Oxfam’s programmes worldwide. and strategy. Jasmine stepped
Jasmine joined Save the Children in down from Save the Children in
Career: Jasmine began her career
2005, where she was responsible December 2015.
Jasmine Whitbread (54) in international marketing in the for revitalising one of the UK’s most
Independent Non-Executive Director technology sector and joined Committees: V R N
Appointed: April 2015 Career: Gay spent over 30 years 2005 to 2008, Gay held a number
working within the fi nancial services of roles at Citibank, including head
Experience: Gay has extensive
industry, the international capital of governance, Citi Alternative
banking and fi nancial services
markets and with the fi nancial Investments, EMEA, before joining
experience with signifi cant
regulator. Gay spent seven years Barclays Capital where she was vice
commercial and UK regulatory
with the Financial Services Authority chair of investment banking and
and governance experience.
from 1998 to 2005, where she was investment management. She was
External appointments: director of markets division, capital previously a non-executive director
Gay is a non-executive director of markets sector leader, with at Aviva plc and the London Stock
ConocoPhillips and Bank Itau BBA responsibility for establishing a Exchange Group plc. She received
International plc and is deputy chair market-facing division for the an OBE for services to fi nancial
of the Financial Reporting Council. supervision of market infrastructure, services and diversity in 2016.
Gay Huey Evans, OBE (63)
oversight of market conduct and
Independent Non-Executive Director developing markets policy. From Committees: C Ri
Appointed: January 2013 Career: Om had a career spanning in his appointment as chairman
38 years with the State Bank of India of the State Bank Group until he
Experience: Om has extensive
(SBI), India’s largest commercial stepped down in 2011. Om was
commercial and retail banking
bank, where he held a number of chairman of the Indian Banks’
experience, fi nancial services and
roles beginning with the lead bank Association and was previously an
leadership acumen, with deep
department, which pioneered independent non-executive director
knowledge and experience of India,
fi nancial inclusion. He led the project of Oil and Natural Gas Corporation.
one of our largest markets.
team that pioneered SBI’s technology
Committees: Ri V
External appointments: Om is an initiative in the 1990s, undertook
independent non-executive director assignments at SBI’s Washington
of Hindustan Unilever Ltd, Tata and London offi ces and held general
Consultancy Services, Tata Steel Ltd, management roles between 2004
Om Bhatt (66)
Tata Motors and Chairman of and 2006, becoming managing
Independent Non-Executive Director Greenko Energy Holdings. director of SBI in 2006, culminating
48 Standard Chartered
Annual Report 2017
53
Strategic
report
DIRECTORS’
REPORT
Risk
review
and
Capital
review
Financial
statements
Supplementary
information
Corporate governance
Board and committee structure
Audit Committee
Read more
Oversight and review of fi nancial, audit, internal fi nancial on page 63
control and non-fi nancial crime issues.
Standard Chartered PLC Board Risk Committee Read more
The Board is collectively responsible for Oversight and review of principal risks including credit, market, on page 69
the long-term success of the Group and capital and liquidity, operational, country, reputational, compliance, conduct,
for ensuring leadership within a framework information and cyber security and fi nancial crime risks.
of effective controls. The Board sets the
strategic direction of the Group, approves Brand, Values and Conduct Committee Read more
the strategy and takes the appropriate Oversight of the Group’s brand, culture, values, conduct, on page 73
action to ensure that the Group is suitably government and regulatory relations, sustainability priorities and
resourced to achieve its strategic aspirations. processes for managing reputational risk.
The Board considers the impact of its decisions
and its responsibilities to all of the Group’s Governance and Nomination Committee Read more
stakeholders, including the Group’s Oversight and review of the Board and executive succession, on page 76
employees, shareholders, regulators, overall Board effectiveness and corporate governance issues.
clients, suppliers, the environment and
the communities in which it operates.
Board Financial Crime Risk Committee Read more
Oversight and review of all fi nancial crime compliance matters. on page 80
Remuneration Committee Read more
Oversight and review of remuneration, share plans and other incentives. on page 83
Group Chief Executive Management Team
Responsible for the management of all aspects of The Management Team comprises the Group Chief Executive and the
the Group’s businesses, developing the strategy Group Chief Financial Offi cer; four regional CEOs; client segment CEOs;
in conjunction with the Chairman and the Board, and our global function heads. It has responsibility for executing
and leading its implementation. the strategy. Details of the Group’s Management Team can be found
on pages 50 to 52.
Matters reserved for the The Governance and Nomination Committee, Code compliance
decision of the Board and in keeping with the provisions of the UK
delegated authorities Corporate Governance Code, is chaired The UK Corporate Governance Code 2016
by the Group Chairman. (the Code) and the Hong Kong Corporate
The Board discharges some of its Governance Code contained in Appendix 14
All the Board committees are comprised
responsibilities directly and delegates certain of the Hong Kong Listing Rules (HK Code) are
other responsibilities to its committees to of independent non-executive directors the standards against which we measured
assist it in carrying out its function of ensuring and play an important role in supporting ourselves in 2017.
the Board. In addition to comprising four
independent oversight and stewardship. The directors are pleased to confi rm that
independent non-executive directors, the
The Board also delegates authority for the Standard Chartered PLC (the Company)
operational management of the Group’s Board Financial Crime Risk Committee’s complied with all of the provisions set out in the
business to the Group Chief Executive for membership includes three independent Code and the HK Code for the year under review.
external advisor members. In 2017 Sir Iain
further delegation by him in respect of Throughout this corporate governance report
Lobban was appointed to act as an
matters that are necessary for the effective we have provided an insight of how corporate
independent advisor to the Board and its
day-to-day running and management of the governance operates within the Group and our
business. The Board holds the Group Chief committees on cyber security and cyber application of the principles set out in the Code
Executive accountable in discharging his threat management. and the HK Code.
delegated responsibilities. The full schedule of matters reserved for the The Group confi rms that it has adopted a code
A clear schedule of matters reserved for Board, along with written terms of reference of conduct regarding directors’ securities
for the Board’s committees can be viewed at transactions on terms no less exacting than
the Board and terms of reference for each
sc.com/termsofreference required by Appendix 10 of the Hong Kong
of its committees are reviewed annually Listing Rules. Having made specifi c enquiry of all
against industry best practice and corporate directors, the Group confi rms that all directors
governance provisions and guidance, have complied with the required standards of
including the Prudential Regulation Authority the adopted code of conduct.
(PRA) Supervisory Statement on Board
Copies of the Code and the Hong Kong
Responsibilities.
Corporate Governance Code can be found
at frc.org.uk and hkex.com.hk respectively
DIRECTORS’ REPORT Corporate governance
Bo ard composition, roles and attendance in 2017
Attendance
AGM Scheduled Ad hoc Responsibilities
Chairman 8/8 1/1 Responsible for leading the Board, the development of
J Viñals the Group’s culture and ensuring its effectiveness in all
aspects of its role. Promotes high standards of integrity
and governance across the Group and ensures effective
communication between the Board, management,
shareholders and wider stakeholders.
Deputy Chairman 8/8 1/1 Provides support and guidance to the Chairman as
N Kheraj required and, in coordination with the Chairman, acts as an
ambassador for the Board and Group in its relationships
with governments, regulators, employees, and clients.
Deputises for the Chairman at Board, general shareholder,
or other meetings when the Chairman is unable to attend.
Executive directors
Group Chief Executive 8/8 1/1 Responsible for the management of all aspects of the
W T Winters Group’s businesses, developing the strategy in conjunction
with the Chairman and the Board and leading its
implementation.
Group Chief Financial Offi cer 8/8 1/1 Responsible for Finance, Corporate Treasury, Group
A N Halford Corporate Development, Group Investor Relations,
Property and Supply Chain Management functions.
Independent non-executive directors
C M Hodgson 8/8 1/1 Senior Independent Director*: Provides a sounding
board for the Chairman and discusses concerns that are
unable to be resolved through the normal channels or where
such contact would be inappropriate with shareholders and
other stakeholders. Chairs the Governance and Nomination
Committee when considering succession of the Chairman.
O P Bhatt 8/8 1/1 Provide an independent perspective and constructive
challenge, and monitor the performance and delivery of
Dr L Cheung 8/8 1/1 the strategy within the risk appetite and controls set by
the Board.
D P Conner 8/8 1/1
Dr B E Grote 8/8 1/1
Dr Han Seung-soo, KBE 8/8 1/1
G Huey Evans, OBE 8/8 1/1
Dr N Okonjo-Iweala (appointed 1 November 2017) N/A 2/2 1/1
J M Whitbread 8/8 1/1
Directors who stepped down during 2017
Dr K M Campbell (stepped down 26 July 2017) 4/4 N/A
* As Senior Independent Director, Christine Hodgson is available to shareholders if they have concerns that cannot be resolved through the normal channels or where such contact
would be inappropriate. She may be contacted via the Group Company Secretary at 1 Basinghall Avenue, London EC2V 5DD.
In 2017, the Group held one general meeting, our Annual General Meeting, on 3 May 2017, which was attended by all of the directors. All directors were proposed for annual (re)
election and all were successfully (re)elected.
The roles of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive are quite distinct from one another and are clearly defi ned in detailed role descriptions
which can be viewed at sc.com/roledescriptions
54 Standard Chartered
Annual Report 2017
55
Strategic
report
DIRECTORS’
REPORT
Risk
review
and
Capital
review
Financial
statements
Supplementary
information
Board meetings Management Team and/or external advisors. The Group Chief Executive and Group
Generally, members of the Management Chief Financial Offi cer comment on current
To enable the Board to use its time most Team and other senior executives are invited trading, business performance, the market,
effectively, it maintains a scheduled to attend part of the meetings to ensure employees and regulatory and external
programme of meetings and a rolling agenda. effective interaction with the Board. During developments at each meeting, and present
There is suffi cient fl exibility in the programme the year, the Chairman met privately with comparative data and client insight. In
for specifi c items to be added to any the Senior Independent Director and the addition, the Group Chief Risk Offi cer
particular agenda to ensure that the Board independent non-executive directors on a periodically attends meetings to update
can focus on the key matters at the number of occasions to assess their views the Board on the key risks.
appropriate time. The Board also schedules a and discuss matters arising. Detail of the key activities considered by the Board
number of informal sessions and interactions, Performance against delivery of the agreed in 2017 is set out on page 56. Some of these items
which allows Board members to discuss key fi nancial priorities is reviewed at every were considered at each meeting and others
reviewed periodically throughout the year
areas of the business, strategy and the meeting with particular reference to the
external environment with members of the detailed Group management accounts.
To the extent applicable, information required by paragraphs 13(2)(c), (d), (f), (h) and (i) of Schedule 7 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and
Reports) Regulations 2008 is available in Other disclosures on pages 107 to 114
In 2017, the Board held eight scheduled and one ad hoc meeting, including four meetings held outside the UK in Hong Kong, New York,
Singapore and Dubai.
HONG NEW
KONG YORK SINGAPORE DUBAI
2017
January February March April May June July August September October November December
+ Ad hoc meeting
AGM
Board activities in 2017
The key activities considered by the Board during 2017 are set out on page 56.
The Board recognises the value of maintaining close relationships with its stakeholders and the importance of these relationships in delivering
the strategy and the Group’s purpose. The Group’s key stakeholders and their differing perspectives were identifi ed and taken into account as
part of the Board’s strategy and fi ve-year corporate plan discussions in November. These discussions centred not only on delivering increased
value for shareholders but also assessed the impact on the Group’s wider stakeholders. Details of the Group’s key wider stakeholders and the
value of the strategy for them is set out below.
Delivering value for shareholders and wider stakeholders
(cid:188) Our regulators’ perspective
– Robust capital base /strong liquidity position
– Standards for conduct
(cid:188) Our shareholders’ perspective
– Strong performance
– Increased income, profi t and return on investment
Driving commerce
& prosperity through (cid:188) Our employees’ perspective
our unique diversity – Fair and competitive remuneration
– Engaged and diverse workforce
(cid:188) Our communities’ perspective and the environment
– Positive social and economic contributions
– Strong community outreach and sustainability programme
(cid:188) Our clients’ perspective
– Differentiated products, preferred bank
– Digitally enabled and positive experience
DIRECTORS’ REPORT Corporate governance
Bo ard activities in 2017
Group strategy (cid:188) Noted the Group’s submission to the (cid:188) Received an update on the impact of the
(cid:188) Reviewed and approved the fi ve-year Banking Standards Board’s 2017 Senior Managers Regime on the Group
corporate plan, as a basis for preparation Assessment and the implementation of its requirements
of the 2018 budget
(cid:188) Received an update on progress in (cid:188) Approved changes to the Board Diversity
(cid:188) Discussed progress of the costs and executing an integrated talent and Policy
investment initiatives and programmes succession management plan across
(cid:188) Received Board committee updates on
the Group
(cid:188) Reviewed and scrutinised the strategic and key areas of focus
operational performance of the business (cid:188) Reviewed the Group’s People Strategy
across client segments, product groups and its key priorities External environment
and regions, which included details of their (cid:188) Discussed the results of the My Voice (cid:188) Received internal and external briefi ngs
priorities, progress and opportunities and input across a range of topics,
employee engagement survey, the
including:
(cid:188) Monitored and assessed the strength of Group’s talent pool and leadership
the Group’s capital and liquidity positions development programmes – the macroeconomic and fi nancial
environment in the UK
(cid:188) Received regular corporate development (cid:188) Endorsed the refresh of the Group’s Code
updates of Conduct – China’s economic outlook and political
reform landscape
(cid:188) Reviewed the Group’s corporate structure (cid:188) Received an annual report on the Group’s
Speaking Up Programme – US economic and political issues and
(cid:188) Monitored the delivery of the IT and
overview of US and global markets
Operations strategy for the Group
Budget and performance oversight
– UAE economic and political themes
(cid:188) Approved the Group’s 2018 budget
Risk management
(cid:188) Discussed the opportunities to capitalise
(cid:188) Received regular risk reports from the (cid:188) Monitored the Group’s fi nancial on China’s Belt and Road initiative
Group Chief Risk Offi cer performance
(cid:188) Considered the evolving macroeconomic
(cid:188) Reviewed and approved changes to the (cid:188) Noted that management had made headwinds and tailwinds and the impact
Group’s Risk Appetite so as to align to the presentations to the Bank of England in
on fi nancial performance
Principal Risk Types as recommended by respect of the 2017 stress test submission
the Board Risk Committee (cid:188) Considered the competitive and market
(cid:188) Approved the full year and half year results
position across the Group’s footprint
(cid:188) Approved the Enterprise Risk Management and considered the key internal and
Framework as recommended by the external factors in determining payment
Shareholder and stakeholder
Board Risk Committee of a fi nal and interim dividend relationships
(cid:188) Considered the identifi ed cyber risks Governance (cid:188) Engaged with investors, held meetings
and discussed the Group’s approach to with brokers, discussed the views of
(cid:188) Approved the appointment of Ngozi
cyber risk management and the Board’s institutional shareholders and responded
Okonjo-Iweala as an independent
responsibilities in a cyber crisis. This to retail shareholders’ questions at the
non-executive director
included specifi c input and guidance on Annual General Meeting
cyber threats facing the banking industry (cid:188) Reviewed and approved the Group’s
from the Board’s independent external Modern Slavery Statement and received
(cid:188) Some Board members as part of their
overseas travel participated in community
advisor on cyber security and cyber threat assurance in respect to the appropriate
engagement activities and projects
management controls
(cid:188) Approved a signifi cant new accounting (cid:188) Approved the separation of the Deputy (cid:188) Engaged with the PRA on the fi ndings
of the 2017 Periodic Summary Meeting
policy, IFRS 9 on recommendation of the Chairman and Senior Independent
Letter
Audit Committee Director roles and the subsequent
(cid:188) Reviewed the Group’s levels of insurance appointment of Christine Hodgson as (cid:188) Engaged with the Financial Conduct
Senior Independent Director Authority (FCA) on the fi ndings and
cover, noted the renewal process and
assessment of the Group following
approved the renewal of the Group’s (cid:188) Considered the Group’s contingency plans
the completion of the 2016 Firm
insurance policies around the UK withdrawal from the EU and
Evaluation Letter
approved the establishment of a subsidiary
People, culture and values based in Germany (cid:188) Engaged with key clients and regulators
(cid:188) Discussed progress on a review and (cid:188) Reviewed the process undertaken by the (Monetary Authority of Singapore and
refresh of the Group’s brand and Audit Committee to tender the Group’s Hong Hong Monetary Authority) as part
culture, including a focus on the new statutory auditor and on recommendation of the Board overseas visits
purpose statement
of the Committee, approved the (cid:188) Discussed periodic updates from Investor
(cid:188) Reviewed and approved the refreshed appointment of EY to take effect for the Relations which included receiving updates
Group valued behaviours to support the year ending 31 December 2020 on the share price, performance metrics
Group’s new purpose (cid:188) Noted progress against the 2016/17 and investor and analyst sentiment
Board effectiveness action plan and
(cid:188) Noted regulatory developments,
discussed the observations and themes
throughout the year including in respect
arising from the 2017 Board and
to the ongoing investigations conducted
Committee effectiveness review and
by certain US authorities
approved the 2017/18 action plan
56 Standard Chartered
Annual Report 2017
DIRECTORS’ REPORT Corporate governance
Ex ternal directorships and Before committing to an additional Time commitment
other business interests appointment, directors confi rm the existence
Our independent non-executive directors
of any potential or actual confl icts; that the
Board members hold external directorships role will not breach their limit as set out by the commit suffi cient time in discharging their
and other outside business interests. We PRA; and provide the necessary assurance responsibilities. In general, we estimate that
recognise the benefi ts that greater that the appointment will not adversely each independent non-executive director
boardroom exposure provides our directors. impact their ability to continue to fulfi l their spent approximately 35 to 50 days on
However, we closely monitor the number of role as a director of the Group. The Board’s Board-related duties, and considerably
directorships our directors take on to satisfy executive directors are permitted to hold more for those who chair or are members
ourselves that any appointment will not only one non-executive directorship. Of our of multiple committees.
adversely impact their role at Standard executive directors, Andy Halford is a
Chartered and that all of our Board members non-executive director of Marks and Spencer
are compliant with the PRA requirements and Group plc, listed on the FTSE 100, and
other shareholder advisory groups’ guidance Bill Winters is a non-executive director
on ‘over-boarding’. These requirements of Novartis International AG, listed on
impose a limit on the number of directorships SIX Swiss Exchange.
both executive and independent non-
executive directors are permitted to hold.
Details of the directors’ external directorships
can be found in their biographies on
pages 47 to 49.
Director induction
All directors receive a full, formal and tailored related procedures and best practice. Secretary also provides support throughout
induction on joining the Board to ensure that Each induction is facilitated through a series the induction process. The induction
they are provided with the knowledge and of in-depth group and one-to-one briefi ng programmes are usually completed within
material to add value from an early stage. All sessions in the UK and across our markets. the fi rst six to nine months of a director’s
inductions are supplemented with a detailed These sessions include meetings with senior appointment. The programmes are
handbook, which includes information on a management, clients, major shareholders, regularly reviewed and take into account
broad range of matters relating to the role of regulators, colleagues and other stakeholders directors’ feedback to ensure they are
being a director on a UK board, as well as as well as involvement in local social continually improved.
detail of applicable legislation, regulation and responsibility activities. The Group Company
DIRECTOR INDUCTION
José Viñals
José Viñals’ induction began in October 2016, following his appointment to the Board as Chairman
designate, with a well-managed two month handover period from outgoing Chairman, Sir John Peace.
José’s formal induction programme, the detail of which was shared in last year’s report, was extensive
and tailored to maximise his knowledge and understanding of multiple subject matters. It included a
combination of face-to-face meetings with, and briefi ngs from senior management across the client
segments, product groups, regional businesses and functions, as well as numerous meetings with
shareholders and other stakeholders. José travelled extensively around our markets during 2017,
where he was able to gain an on-the-ground understanding of the market, the business, our
colleagues and wider stakeholders. José completed his formal programme of induction in the
summer, and is now highly engaged and focused on his ongoing development. José Viñals | Group Chairman
Ongoing development plans contribution to the Board remains well- Support is provided to the directors by the
informed and up to date. In addition the Group Company Secretary and the Group
Training and development of our directors
committee members received specifi c Corporate Secretariat team. Directors also
does not end following their induction.
training relevant to the work of their have access to independent professional
Ongoing and continual development of our
committee, for details of these topics advice at the Group’s expense where they
directors is crucial to ensure that the Board
see the relevant committee pages. judge it necessary to discharge their
remains highly engaged, effective and well
responsibilities as directors.
informed. In addition, mandatory training Directors’ formal ongoing training took the
and ongoing engagement plans are a key form of refresher training on their statutory
element of each director’s fi t and proper duties as a director of a UK and Hong Kong
assessment as required under the Senior listed company, with a particular focus on
Managers Regime. During the year, all identifying and managing confl icts of interest;
directors received a combination of an update on UK regulatory and governance
mandatory training, briefi ngs, presentations, responsibilities and obligations. The table on
guest speakers and papers on a range of page 59 gives further detail on who received
subjects to ensure that each director’s additional briefi ngs.
58 Standard Chartered
Annual Report 2017
DIRECTORS’ REPORT Corporate governance
B oard effectiveness
The evaluation of the Board and committee effectiveness was conducted in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and the
PRA’s expectations. The Governance and Nomination Committee had oversight of the process. It was facilitated by Ffi on Hague of Independent
Board Evaluation (IBE). Neither Ffi on Hague nor IBE has any other connection with Standard Chartered.
Board and committee effectiveness review process
(cid:188) Conducted tender process: A longlist of (cid:188) Agreed action plan: Following the Board make an even contribution; and enhancing
seven providers was drawn up, each discussion an action plan for 2017/18 was linkages between the Board and its
having built a solid reputation in the market agreed. Action plans for each committee committees.
for facilitating effectiveness reviews. Each were subsequently discussed and agreed
fi rm was sent a Request for Proposal after by the committee chairs Committees
which a formal assessment process was
(cid:188) Shared fi ndings with PRA: A summary The Board’s six committees were also
undertaken by a panel made up of the
of the fi ndings were shared with the PRA observed as part of the review and feedback
Group Chairman, the Deputy Chairman
provided to the committee chairs. The
and the Group Company Secretary,
Observations from the committees were highly regarded in the
resulting in IBE being selected.
effectiveness review feedback and viewed as effective in fulfi lling
(cid:188) Brief and Board observation: A their remits. A copy of the fi nal report was
comprehensive brief was provided to IBE At the time of the review José Viñals had made available to committee members.
by the Chairman and the assessment been the Chairman for four months and
team observed the Board and its six had chaired only two meetings. The review
committees in February and March. was intended to provide a baseline of
Access to Board and committee papers performance against which the Board’s Action plan 2017/18
was provided progress could be measured over the (cid:188) Create even more space for regular
coming years.
(cid:188) One-to-one interviews: The IBE strategic discussion
assessment team conducted detailed The broad message from the directors (cid:188) Hold a learning and development
interviews with every Board member and a was that the Board had undergone some session for committee chairs in order
number of senior management, external considerable change over the past three to share good practice and enhance
advisors, brokers, auditor, regulators and years and the appointment of José as their overall effectiveness, setting the
shareholders Chairman was seen favourably by the right tone for open discussion
directors who regarded the Board’s direction
(cid:188) Evaluation and report compiled: The of travel as very positive. The induction (cid:188) Invite local subsidiary independent
report was compiled by the assessment programme received by directors on joining non-executive directors to attend
team, based on the views gathered by the Board was highly rated for being parts of the Group Board/committee
those interviewed and observations from comprehensive and offering access to every meetings when in country
the Board and committee meetings
part of the business and to any member of
(cid:188) Ensure the overseas Board
(cid:188) Discussion with the Board and senior management. programmes continue to provide
Committee Chairs: The draft However, there was an appreciation that suffi cient time for effective interaction
conclusions were discussed with the there was more to do before the Board with a range of stakeholders, including
Chairman and subsequently with the reached optimal performance. This included: local management, clients, colleagues
whole Board at which Ffi on Hague was increasing time for strategic discussion and and regulators
present. Following the Board discussion,
feedback on the committee reports were focus; standing back suffi ciently to see the (cid:188) Ensure that Board papers consistently
discussed with each of the relevant broad issues and the greatest priorities; set out all options for the Board to
committee Chairs before being shared ensuring all existing and new members have provide constructive challenge
suffi cient development and opportunity to
more widely with the committee members
External effectiveness review in 2017
February/March March/April April/May May May June
Brief and Board One-to-one Evaluation and Discussion with Agreed action plan Shared fi ndings
observation interviews report the Board and (cid:188) An action plan for with PRA
(cid:188) Brief provided (cid:188) Detailed interviews (cid:188) Initial report compiled Committee Chairs 2017/18 was agreed (cid:188) Summary of fi ndings
(cid:188) Observation of Board with Board and other (cid:188) Draft conclusions and shared with shared with the PRA
and committees stakeholders discussed with the Board
Chairman
(cid:188) Access to papers
(cid:188) Board discussion
60 Standard Chartered
Annual Report 2017
61
Strategic
report
DIRECTORS’
REPORT
Risk
review
and
Capital
review
Financial
statements
Supplementary
information
Directors’ performance Chairman’s performance is independent, the Board considers each
individual against the criteria set out in the
In addition to the Board and Committee The Senior Independent Director met with
UK Corporate Governance Code, the Hong
effectiveness reviews José Viñals met the independent non-executive directors,
Kong Listing Rules and also considers their
with each of the directors during 2017 to at a private meeting without the Chairman
contribution and conduct at Board meetings,
evaluate their individual performance. The present, to evaluate the Chairman’s
including how they exercise judgement and
performance reviews are used as the basis performance, taking into account the views
independent thinking.
for recommending the re-election of directors of the executive directors. The feedback was
by shareholders and to assist the Chairman collated and consolidated feedback was In line with the Code, Dr Han’s re-
in assessing whether each director continues given to José Viñals. appointment was subject to particular
to contribute effectively and demonstrate review and scrutiny, given he has served
their commitment to the role, including time Independence of directors on the Board for more than six years.
commitment for board and committee The Board is satisfi ed that Dr Han and each
The Chairman is committed to ensuring
meetings and other duties. of its non-executive directors bring robust,
that the Board is comprised of a majority
independent oversight. All of the directors
of independent non-executive directors. In
will stand for (re)election at the 2018 AGM
determining whether a non-executive director
with the support of the Board.
Engagement with investors
Our approach Bill Winters and Andy Halford are the agencies with country chief executives and
primary spokespeople for the Group and chief fi nancial offi cers leading on subsidiary
We aim to deliver robust returns and
throughout the year engaged extensively ratings. In 2017, management met with debt
long-term sustainable value for our
with existing and potential investors during investors across Europe, North America
shareholders. Trusted and open relationships
individual and group meetings either on and Asia and maintained a regular dialogue
with our investors are important to us and
roadshows or at investor conferences. In with the rating agencies. It is important that
we believe strengthened by ensuring we
addition, each member of the Management the Group, as an active issuer of senior
consistently and openly seek feedback.
Team responsible for a client segment or unsecured and non-equity capital maintains
The Chairman and other Board directors geographic region has met with investors regular contact with debt investors to ensure
maintain direct contact with investors and to promote greater awareness and continued appetite for the Group’s credit.
advisory voting bodies and receive regular understanding of the strategy in their The Group’s credit ratings are an important
updates from the Investor Relations team respective areas as well as receive investor part of the external perception of our fi nancial
including reports on market and investor feedback fi rsthand. strength and creditworthiness.
sentiment.
Institutional shareholders Further information can be viewed at
During the year we maintained a programme www.investors.sc.com
comprehensive programme of engagement
with investors and other key stakeholders, The Group maintains a diverse, high quality
Retail shareholders programme
including investor advisory bodies and credit and predominantly institutional shareholder
rating agencies and provided updates on base. The Investor Relations team has The Group Company Secretary oversees
progress made to secure our foundations primary responsibility for managing day-to- communication with retail shareholders.
and the steps being taken to reposition the day communications with these shareholders Our AGM held on 3 May 2017 was attended
Group for improved returns. In 2017, we met and provides support to the Chairman, by all of the directors and provided an
with over 284 separate institutions in 769 Group Chief Executive, Group Chief opportunity for them to meet with existing
investor meetings across 11 of our markets. Financial Offi cer, other Board members retail shareholders, hear their views and
José has spent a signifi cant portion of his and senior management in conducting a respond to their questions. The Chairs of the
fi rst full year as Chairman engaging with comprehensive engagement programme. Audit, Remuneration and Governance and
shareholders representing more than Nomination Committees were available to
50 per cent of the share register, including All presentation material and webcast transcripts answer questions. It was well-attended and
are made available on the Group’s website and
hosting 13 of them at his annual governance can be viewed at www.investors.sc.com all of the proposed resolutions were passed
event. Christine Hodgson, Chair of the with shareholder support for each ranging
Remuneration Committee also spent a from 86.78 to 99.99 per cent.
Debt investor programme
signifi cant amount of time during the
The results of the voting on each resolution at the
year engaging shareholders on Our Treasury team has primary responsibility
2017 AGM can be viewed at www.investors.sc.com
remuneration matters. for managing the Group’s relationships with
debt investors and the three major rating
What we did in 2017
February March April May June August September October November December
(cid:188) 2016 (cid:188) 1 Roadshow (cid:188) Q1 Interim (cid:188) AGM (cid:188) 1 Conference (cid:188) 2017 Half (cid:188) 5 Conferences(cid:188) Chairman’s (cid:188) Q3 Interim (cid:188) 2 Conferences
Full year management year results governance management
(cid:188) 3 Conferences (cid:188) 1 Conference (cid:188) 6 Roadshows (cid:188) 1 Roadshow
results statement event statement
(cid:188) 6 Roadshows
(cid:188) 1 Seminar
(cid:188) 6 Roadshows (cid:188) 1 Conference (cid:188) 2 Roadshows(cid:188) 3 Conferences
(cid:188) 1 Seminar
65
Strategic
report
DIRECTORS’
REPORT
Risk
review
and
Capital
review
Financial
statements
Supplementary
information
FOCUS ON Management were involved in the Recommendations and fi nal decision
assessment process through meetings The Committee recommended two fi rms
Audit tender
with the fi rms and providing feedback to the Board, with an identifi ed fi rst and
and scorecards, which were presented to second choice, and at its meeting on
The Company complies with the Statutory the Committee after they had received 9 November 2017 the Board resolved
Audit services for Large Companies Market presentations from the fi rms. As part of that it intends to appoint EY for the
Investigation (Mandatory Use of Competitive the process the views of the Group’s year ending 31 December 2020, subject to
Tender Processes and Audit Committee subsidiary audit committees were sought shareholders’ approval at the AGM in 2020.
responsibilities) Order 2014. and provided. In making the decision the Board noted that
On 9 November 2017, the Group EY had set themselves apart and made
announced its intention to appoint Assessment criteria them the best choice to take over the
EY for the year ending 31 December 2020, In the context of a large listed global audit engagement by demonstrating that
subject to shareholders’ approval at the company operating in a complex and they had:
AGM in 2020. regulated industry, the assessment criteria (cid:188) Well-established practices and a
was set out in a detailed Request for
The process, which ran from June to Proposal and included: geographic partnership structure rooted
November 2017, was led by the Committee in the Group’s key markets
and in compliance with statutory (cid:188) The fi rms’ team and credentials (cid:188) A deep understanding of the Group’s
requirements and guidance issued (cid:188) Geographic coverage and transition business and the challenges it faces
by the FRC. arrangements
(cid:188) A culture that complements the Group’s
Short list (cid:188) Understanding of the business and
(cid:188) In-depth previous experience with other
industry
The three eligible ‘Big Four’ fi rms were large multinational clients and Global and
invited to tender and two of those fi rms (cid:188) Service approach Domestically Systemically Important
submitted proposals. Proper consideration Institutions (GSIB/DSIB)
was given to fi rms outside the ‘Big Four’. (cid:188) Quality assurance
(cid:188) Technical and regulatory knowledge
However, in view of the size, complexity (cid:188) Independence
and geographical footprint of the Group, (cid:188) A clear service approach to executing
the Committee concluded that none would (cid:188) Corporate and social responsibility the audit and transition
have the requisite resources to provide an (cid:188) Litigation Transition
effective service.
(cid:188) Fees (to ensure suffi cient to deploy KPMG will remain the Group’s auditor
Process resources globally) until 2019. Over the intervening period
Naguib as Audit Committee Chair, started As part of the process external EY and the Group will start the transition
the process by meeting with the senior stakeholders were engaged, including the process, including independence in
partners or chairs of the fi rms, and they PRA and the Group’s top 20 shareholders. respect of non-audit services and banking
provided either two or three candidates relationships globally.
for the lead role for the Group to consider. Presentations
Part of the evaluation of the potential lead The fi rms made oral and written
partners involved taking references from presentations to the Committee, with senior
current and former clients. The process members of management in attendance,
allowed each of the audit fi rms equal in October 2017. This was followed by the
access to senior management members Committee completing scorecards against
across key businesses, geographies and the decision criteria stipulated in the
functions. The fi rms also met with Naguib Request for Proposal, receiving feedback
and the Group Chairman before submitting from the management meetings to take into
written proposals. consideration and an open discussion as
part of the fi nal deliberations.
Audit tender process
24 February 2017 August 2017 August to 30 October 2017 9 November 2017 May 2020 31 December
Announced in our Announced in the November 2017 Audit fi rms The Group Shareholders’ 2020
2016 Annual Report half year results that Tender process presentations to announced its approval to be First year end
and Accounts the tender process conducted the Committee intention to requested at of EY audit
our intention to would commence in appoint EY the AGM
change auditor, the second half of
by year ending 2017 and letters to
31 December 2021 the Group’s top 20
shareholders sent
71
Strategic
report
DIRECTORS’
REPORT
Risk
review
and
Capital
review
Financial
statements
Supplementary
information
Activities in the year continued
Principal Risk Types (cid:188) Information and Cyber Security – The Committee received updates on the Group’s Information and Cyber
continued Security programme and discussed:
– Key initiatives being undertaken to enhance the Group’s security posture
– The regulatory and compliance landscape
– Internal and external cyber risk associated events and the cyber risk landscape facing the fi nancial services
industry
Sir Iain Lobban, who is one of the external advisor members of the Board Financial Crime Risk Committee and an
independent advisor to the PLC Board on cyber and security threats, joined the Committee meetings for these
discussions together with the Group Chief Information Offi cer and the Chief Information Security Offi cer.
(cid:188) Reputational risk:
Whilst the Brand, Values and Conduct Committee is responsible for providing oversight of the processes by which
the Group identifi es and manages reputational risk, the Committee discussed the reputational risk management
approach that has been developed and designed to drive consistency in risk assessment.
A separate bi-annual report to the Brand, Values and Conduct Committee provides Group Internal Audit’s
perspective on culture, conduct and reputational risk management.
Stress testing (cid:188) Provided oversight and challenge for stress testing scenario design and test execution and reviewed the outcomes
of the Bank of England Stress Test (comprising an Annual Cyclical Scenario and Biennial Exploratory Scenario)
which the Group, along with the other largest UK banks, was required to undertake
(cid:188) Encouraged management to use the stress test results to enhance business decisions in order to improve capital
effi ciencies and risk management
Further details of stress testing are set out on page 162.
Internal controls (cid:188) Discussed reports from the Group Head of Internal Audit that provide summaries of Group Internal Audit’s
appraisals of controls across key risks subject to the Committee’s oversight, together with key risk issues identifi ed
by Group Internal Audit’s work and management actions put in place to address the fi ndings
The Audit Committee, Board Financial Crime Risk Committee and the Brand, Values and Conduct Committee
discuss separate reports from the Group Head of Internal Audit on Group Internal Audit’s appraisal of controls across
key risk types subject to each Committee’s oversight. Collectively the reports received by these Committees provide
assurance that there are effective internal controls within the Group.
Remuneration Considered advice provided by the Group Chief Risk Offi cer to the Remuneration Committee concerning the risk
as a risk factors to be taken into account by the Remuneration Committee in determining the incentive structure for the
management Group Chief Executive, the executive directors and such other senior executives as appropriate. Such advice assists
tool the Remuneration Committee in its assessment as to whether the Group’s remuneration policy, practices and
procedures are consistent with and promote sound and effective risk management and do not encourage risk-taking
that exceeds the level of tolerated risk of the Group.
Further details concerning the Group’s approach to using remuneration as a risk management tool are set out in the
Directors’ remuneration report.
Deeper discussions In discharging its responsibilities, the Committee has requested and held deeper discussions on the following topics:
into specifi c topics
(cid:188) Principal Finance: Reviewed and discussed the key process and controls enhancements in the Group’s
Principal Finance business and considered an analysis of the Principal Finance business portfolio in relation
to declining valuations
(cid:188) Aviation Finance: Reviewed and discussed the Group’s Aviation Finance Operating Lease and Debt portfolios,
the strategy for the business, key risks and the steps being taken to address past challenges and developments
in the market environment
(cid:188) Derivatives in the Retail Business: Discussed an overview of the Group’s Wealth Management structured
product business and sales governance approach together with the Group’s client exposures to structured
products
(cid:188) Funds Transfer Pricing: Discussed enhancements to the Group’s Funds Transfer Pricing policy
(cid:188) Internal Ratings Based (IRB) Portfolios – Models Status and Performance: Discussed a report concerning
the performance of the Group’s IRB models and key model developments
(cid:188) Risk Based Review of the Group’s investment in China Bohai Bank: A risk based review discussion that
included an evaluation as to whether such risks were industry specifi c and determined whether there were any
substantial concerns which warranted potential management actions
(cid:188) Sensitivity to a strengthening United States Dollar (USD) and rising US interest rates: Received
management’s view on the key economic and sensitivities to the USD and increasing US interest rates and
discussed the resulting key areas of vulnerabilities and opportunities for the Group
(cid:188) Brexit Governance: Received an overview of the capital cost and benefi ts including fi nancial projections and
details of the proposed governance structure and control framework of the Group’s new German subsidiary
(cid:188) Financial Markets Strategy, Risk Management and Controls: Discussed the strategy, associated controls
and the end-to-end process for derivatives
73
Strategic
report
DIRECTORS’
REPORT
Risk
review
and
Capital
review
Financial
statements
Supplementary
information
Brand, Values and Conduct Committee
“Conduct is considered by the Committee
as a cornerstone of our culture”
The focus of the Committee this year continued with strengthening the Group’s culture Committee composition
– understanding where we are today, where we aspire to be, what needs to change
and how we can best measure progress. Ongoing diagnosis of our culture included Scheduled meetings
examining the results of our employee engagement survey, as well as other industry
J M Whitbread (Chair) 4/4
standard tools and measures. Setting out where we want to be began with exploring
O P Bhatt 4/4
and affi rming the Group’s purpose ‘Driving commerce and prosperity through our
unique diversity’. Dr Han Seung-soo, KBE 4/4
The Committee considered our brand promise as integrally linked to culture. We C M Hodgson 4/4
reviewed in-depth and country-specifi c studies, to reveal what our clients and employees Dr N Okonjo-Iweala
expect from us, as we strive to strengthen our client focus and performance culture. (appointed on 1 November 2017) 1/1
Considering these inputs and in light of the Group’s strategy, the Committee was Directors who stepped down during 2017
well-positioned to review the new valued behaviours we expect throughout the Group. Dr K M Campbell
We then assessed the implementation plan for this refreshed direction, debated and (stepped down on 26 July 2017) 2/2
agreed a set of metrics that will help us assess the progress the Group is making in line Other attendees at Committee meetings in 2017
with this direction over time. included: Group Chairman; Group Chief Executive;
Group Head, Human Resources; Group Head
Conduct is considered by the Committee as a cornerstone of our culture. Conduct has
Corporate, Public and Regulatory Affairs and Group
also continued as a focus of attention in its own right, with an ongoing assessment Company Secretary
of how the Group’s Conduct agenda is being reinforced and communicated to all
employees. This year, we have noted the signifi cant efforts by senior leaders to set the The Chair of the Board Risk Committee attended one of
the Committee meetings in 2017.
tone from the top and lead by example. In the year ahead, the Committee expects to
review a detailed set of metrics specifi cally focused on conduct, to complement the Details of the Committee member’s experience can be
wider metrics we examine on culture. found on pages 47 to 49.
The Committee has also focused its attention to how the Group identifi es and manages
Committee responsibilities
reputational risk. In line with our brand promise, Here for good, we sought and received
The Committee has responsibility for reviewing the the
assurance on how the Group’s Position Statements (which guide our approach to Group’s brand, culture, valued behaviours and conduct,
providing fi nancial services to clients who operate in sensitive business sectors or face as well as the processes by which the Group identifi es
specifi c issues) align to the Group’s Risk Appetite. We discussed how reputational risk and manages reputational risk, sustainability priorities
reporting to the Committee could be enhanced, in order for a comprehensive overview and the approach to main government and regulatory
of the reputational risk landscape to be fully considered. relationships.
The Committee benefi ted from insightful exchanges with local management in Hong The Committee has written terms of reference that
Kong and Singapore, as part of overseas Board visits. A valuable perspective was also can be viewed at www.sc.com/termsofreference
provided by the Group Head of Internal Audit, who attends two Committee meetings
each year, to provide appropriate assurance on culture, conduct and reputational risk
management.
The Committee’s focus on the Group’s culture, brand, valued behaviours, conduct,
reputational risk management and sustainability priorities will continue in 2018, as well as
the practice of receiving market insights and additional perspective on matters within the
Committee’s remit.
I would like to thank Kurt Campbell, who stepped down in the year, for his contribution
to the Committee and welcome Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, who joined the Committee on
1 November 2017. Ngozi brings a wealth of experience on geo-political, economic and
sustainability matters, which will be of value to our work in the year ahead.
Jasmine Whitbread
Chair of the Brand, Values and Conduct Committee
DIRECTORS’ REPORT Corporate governance
Ac tivities in the year
Brand and culture Discussed the progress being made on the review of brand and culture, as an integrated programme of work, details
of which are set out below.
FOCUS ON (setting out the various workstreams The Committee reviewed the global results
underway with clear timelines and from the 2017 employee engagement
Culture and valued
responsible persons). The Committee survey and corresponding areas of focus
behaviours reviewed and provided input on cultural for teams and managers. A deeper analysis
metrics which have been developed was undertaken into the UK specifi c survey
2017 has been a dynamic year for the and enhanced signifi cantly, to ensure a fi ndings, alongside the Banking Standards
Group’s work on culture. comprehensive and balanced overview. Board 2017 assessment report. The
Regional CEO of Europe and Americas
The Group’s purpose ‘Driving commerce Focus was placed on reviewing the Group’s
attended this discussion to provide context.
and prosperity through our unique diversity’ purpose, with the Committee counselling
was launched in September and new that it needed to be aspirational, enduring,
valued behaviours were defi ned to support resonate with stakeholders and be
the Group’s desired brand and culture. inextricably linked to the Group’s strategy.
The Committee discussed progress reports The valued behaviours were also reviewed
on how cultural change is embedding and emphasis was placed on the need for
throughout the Group; and received regular these to resonate well with employees and
status updates on the overall plan of work translate easily into expected behaviours.
Brand refresh, The Committee reviewed:
marketing plan
and Group (cid:188) The Group’s 2017 marketing plan and confi rmed its support of the focus to enhance the client value proposition
and deepen client relationships. As part of this, the Committee was keen to understand how the Group’s thought
sponsorships
leadership initiatives are being developed, given these differentiate the Group and provide value to clients
(cid:188) The Group’s sponsorship portfolio, including the Liverpool Football Club sponsorship, and encouraged that
consideration be given as to how this sponsorship can be constantly leveraged to ensure maximum benefi t for
the Group
(cid:188) The creative concepts for the Group’s brand refresh, considering how these align to the work underway on brand
and culture. The Committee counselled on the importance of the brand refresh being authentic, differentiating,
enduring and aligned to how the Group wishes to be regarded by clients and other stakeholders
Conduct The Committee reviewed:
(cid:188) How conduct is being embedded throughout the Group’s three lines of defence, the fi rst line (countries, businesses
and functions); the second line (Compliance) and the third line (GIA)
Received updates on:
(cid:188) The Group’s Conduct Management Framework, proposed conduct metrics, the Group Conduct Management
policy and conduct training/guidance materials
(cid:188) The steps being taken to transition the management of conduct risk from a programme of work to a
sustainable model
Reviewed and provided feedback on:
(cid:188) The refreshed Group Code of Conduct (the Code). As part of this, the Committee noted the communication
programme which would emphasise individual and management accountability; and was assured to see the
high re-commitment rate to the Code. Further details on the Code can be found on page 40
Reputational risk Reviewed the processes by which the Group manages reputational risk in an effective and transparent manner,
management consistent with the Board approved Group Risk Appetite Statement and:
(cid:188) Received status reports on enhancements to the Group’s approach including the reputational risk policy and
framework, risk measurement and reporting, Risk Appetite, stress testing, governance, resources and training
(cid:188) Sought and received assurance on how the Group’s Position Statements are aligned to the Group’s Risk Appetite
(cid:188) Discussed how reporting on reputational risk management could be enhanced to ensure that a comprehensive
overview of the Group’s reputational risk profi le is received
74 Standard Chartered
Annual Report 2017
75
Strategic
report
DIRECTORS’
REPORT
Risk
review
and
Capital
review
Financial
statements
Supplementary
information
Activities in the year continued
Sustainability Reviewed a number of matters under the Group’s Sustainability agenda including:
(cid:188) The Group’s approach to environmental and social risk management, which included the work underway to refresh
the Group’s Position Statements. The Committee welcomed the review being undertaken by management to
ensure that the topics and sectors being covered by the Position Statements are aligned to the Group’s business
portfolio and are refl ective of the Group’s Risk Appetite
(cid:188) The risk acceptance parameters drafted to accompany the Group’s refreshed Palm Oil Position Statement
(cid:188) The Group’s community expenditure for the full year 2016, noting that the level of Employee Volunteering (EV)
engagement remained high, comprising 40 per cent of the Group’s expenditure in 2016. Further details on EV
can be found on page 41
Received updates on:
(cid:188) Climate change, palm oil and human rights, noting the Group’s position and how this compares with peers
(cid:188) Developments within the Group’s community strategy to ensure that it aligns with the Group’s purpose, refl ects
the Group’s strategy, engages employees and resonates with clients and other stakeholders
Government and (cid:188) Reviewed the Group’s approach to its main government and regulatory relationships across our key markets,
regulatory focusing on the quality of these relationships and engagement in place
relationships
(cid:188) Provided input on the areas of priority for 2018
(cid:188) Received an update on resources in place to manage these relationships
(cid:188) Acknowledged that given the Group’s diverse geographic footprint, there are typically a number of supervisory
matters or investigations ongoing at any time
Market insights Market insights received during overseas Board visits to Hong Kong and Singapore included:
and additional
perspective (cid:188) An informal discussion between the Committee and members of the Hong Kong management team to discuss
brand, culture and reputation. This discussion brought the matters of brand and culture to life from a country
perspective and provided useful context for the Committee’s deliberations
(cid:188) The provision of context from the Singapore CEO on brand and culture in Singapore, including an update on the
various initiatives underway to drive cultural change. The Committee was supportive of the steps being taken to
promote a strong service culture in Singapore
(cid:188) The Group Head of Internal Audit provided context on GIA’s work in relation to culture, conduct and reputational
risk management
Committee effectiveness review Committee chair engagement Jasmine also met with the Head of Diversity
and Inclusion (D&I) to provide input to the
In 2017, the effectiveness of the Committee Outside of the formal Committee meetings,
Group’s refreshed D&I strategy. One-to-one
was assessed as part of the externally Jasmine had various interactions and
meetings were then organised with each
facilitated Board effectiveness review. engagement with management and
Committee member and the Head of D&I
It was acknowledged that the Committee is employees across the Group. In particular,
so that additional perspectives and insights
operating effectively and some suggestions Jasmine participated in the Group’s Global
on D&I could be obtained and discussed.
were made to enhance effectiveness. Chairmen’s Conference. This Conference
D&I will be discussed by the Committee in
These suggestions included the need for the was held in Dubai and attendees included the
early 2018.
Committee to provide more communication Group’s subsidiary chairmen. Jasmine was
to non-Committee members on the activities one of the panellists for the discussion on
of the Committee; and to ensure that the culture. She shared her experience of the
Committee’s remit is not too broad. These Committee’s role in reviewing the Group’s
suggestions will be kept under review by purpose and how the Board sets the tone
the Committee. for culture and conduct from the top.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT Corporate governance
G overnance and Nomination Committee
“The Committee invested a signifi cant
amount of its time this year strengthening
the Board’s succession planning”
The Governance and Nomination Committee has been active this year in addressing a Committee composition
number of priorities which I set out when taking over as Chairman of the Committee at
the end of 2016. In March an independent, externally facilitated review of the Board Scheduled meetings Ad hoc
and its committees was commissioned to gain a comprehensive insight into their J Viñals (Chair) 3/3 1/1
performance and to set a baseline, early in my tenure, against which the Board can be
N Kheraj 3/3 1/1
measured in future years. Details of the overall process, the observations and the actions
C M Hodgson 3/3 1/1
identifi ed are set out earlier in the report on page 60.
J Whitbread 3/3 1/1
The Committee invested a signifi cant amount of its time this year strengthening the
Board’s succession planning alongside overseeing the Group’s senior talent succession D Conner 3/3 1/1
plans. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, who joined the Board in November, emerged from this Other attendees at Committee meetings in 2017
process as a valuable addition to the Board. Ngozi has signifi cant geo-political, included: Group Chief Executive; Group Head, Human
Resources; Group Company Secretary
economic, risk and development experience and expertise at a national governmental
level and within international organisations, which will provide valuable insight to the Biographical details of the Committee members can be
Board discussion. viewed on pages 47 to 49
As part of the Committee’s discussions on the Board’s composition and structure, it
Committee responsibilities
considered in detail the rationale for separating the roles of Deputy Chairman and Senior
The Committee has responsibility for keeping the
Independent Director and recommended to the Board that the roles were separated.
composition of the Board and its committees under
Christine Hodgson was appointed as Senior Independent Director with effect from
review and leads the process for Board appointments,
1 February 2018 taking over from Naguib Kheraj, who remains as Deputy Chairman taking into account the Board’s current and future skills,
and Chair of the Audit Committee. Christine Hodgson also remain as Chair of the knowledge, experience and diversity.
Remuneration Committee.
The Committee also considers any material changes to
The importance and benefi ts of a diverse Board, in terms of gender, skills, knowledge, corporate governance regulation and legislation affecting
experiences and geographical coverage, are central to the Committee’s discussions the Group, has oversight of the Group’s approach to
subsidiary corporate governance and keeps under review
when considering succession planning. The Board Diversity Policy has assisted us
the leadership needs of, and succession plans for, the
in driving progress in this area in recent years, including giving a greater focus to the
Group’s senior executives.
benefi ts of gender diversity and achieving the appropriate mix of individuals with
geographical knowledge. During the year the Committee reviewed the policy, taking into The Committee has written terms of reference that
account the many reports which have been published in this area, and recommended can be viewed at www.sc.com/termsofreference
a number of changes, not least a change in target for the proportion of women on
the Board, having surpassed the previous target of 25 per cent earlier in the year.
More details on the changes to the policy and progress made against our objectives
in the year are set out on page 79.
This year, the Committee has also given greater prominence to the oversight of material
trends, initiatives and proposals relating to the corporate governance of the Group, as
well as the Group’s approach to subsidiary corporate governance across the Group’s
four regions, satisfying ourselves as to the rigour and process being applied.
Externally, the Committee has been active, monitoring and contributing to the
Government’s corporate governance reform agenda. The Committee provided input into
the Group’s response to the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy’s
(BEIS) Green Paper and has had subsequent discussions on the actions, ongoing
work streams and potential implications for the Group. We look forward to continued
engagement on some of these initiatives, particularly through the Financial Reporting
Council’s consultation on the UK Corporate Governance Code in the year ahead.
José Viñals
Chair of the Governance and Nomination Committee
76 Standard Chartered
Annual Report 2017
77
Strategic
report
DIRECTORS’
REPORT
Risk
review
and
Capital
review
Financial
statements
Supplementary
information
Activities in the year
Board and senior (cid:188) Considered the current and future composition of the Board, including skills, experience, knowledge, time
talent succession commitment and gender diversity. Discussed where signifi cant knowledge and experience gaps exist, immediately
planning and in the longer term as part of a continuing process of shaping the Board into the future
(cid:188) Agreed the need to identify a diverse pool of independent non-executive directors for the short, medium and longer
term and systematically reviewed throughout the year a number of candidate long lists
(cid:188) Agreed the need for an additional independent non-executive director with regional perspective and experience
along with international fi nancial experience
(cid:188) Engaged the executive search fi rm Egon Zehnder*, to assist the Committee in the search, resulting in the
emergence of Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala as a sought after candidate
(cid:188) Signifi cant discussion of potential candidates amongst the Committee and more widely with the Board led to the
Committee’s recommendation of Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala to the Board as an independent non-executive director.
Provided oversight of the detailed Executive and Management Team succession plans
(cid:188) Reviewed the emergency cover plans for key Board and committee chair roles, to ensure that appropriate
individuals with the necessary skills have been identifi ed to cover roles on an emergency and interim basis should
the need arise
* Egon Zehnder is a signatory to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for executive search fi rms and was a supplier of senior resourcing to the Group
during the year
Board structure (cid:188) Considered and discussed the governance, the rationale and timing for separating the roles of Deputy Chairman
and Senior Independent Director, taking into account feedback from the independent externally facilitated Board
effectiveness review and recommended to the Board that the two roles are held by two individuals
(cid:188) Discussed potential candidates for the Senior Independent Director role amongst the Committee and more
widely with the Board, taking into account the need for the individual to have the attributes required of a Senior
Independent Director
(cid:188) Recommended to the Board that Christine Hodgson be appointed Senior Independent Director
Board effectiveness (cid:188) Provided oversight of the process of the independent, externally facilitated review of the Board and its Committees,
review including the selection process, which resulted in the selection of Ffi on Hague’s Independent Board Evaluation to
facilitate the review
(cid:188) The themes and recommendations from the report were explored by the Board in conjunction with Ffi on Hague,
and the overall process observed by the Committee
(cid:188) Considered and discussed the themes and recommendations from the Committee’s report and discussed the
proposed action plan for 2017/18
Board Diversity (cid:188) Reviewed the impact of the Board Diversity Policy in driving progress in this area and particularly its role in
Policy embedding the importance of diversity into the succession planning process
(cid:188) Considered the progress made in meeting the Board Diversity Policy’s objectives, including how the Board has
performed in achieving its stated aim in respect to gender diversity. Detail on progress made is set out on page 79
(cid:188) Took account of recent regulation and recommendations in reviewing the Board Diversity Policy whilst continuing
to take a broad view of diversity
(cid:188) Considered and recommended to the Board two changes to the Board Diversity Policy, details of which can be
found on page 78
DIRECTORS’ REPORT Corporate governance
A c tivities in the year continued
Confl icts of (cid:188) Conducted an annual review on the directors’ existing and previously authorised potential situational confl icts
interest of interest, and considered whether any circumstances would necessitate the authorisation being revoked
or amended
Subsidiary (cid:188) Received updates from the four Regional CEOs on the Group’s approach to Corporate Governance. Received
governance assurance of the effective oversight and compliance with the Subsidiary Governance Policy
(cid:188) Discussed current linkages between banking subsidiaries and the Group and the escalation of key risks through
the structure
(cid:188) Consideration was given to the formal and informal enhancements made to improve the fl ow of information,
including the committee chairs hosting calls throughout the year, the introduction of the fi rst Global Chairmen’s
Conference held in Dubai during November (more detail can be found on page 62) and engagement with the
subsidiaries by directors as they travel across the Group’s markets
(cid:188) Commented on other practical ways to enhance and further strengthen the links, communication and information
fl ows between the Group and the subsidiaries
Corporate (cid:188) Reviewed the key themes to emerge from the BEIS Green Paper on Corporate Governance and commented on
governance the Group’s response to the accompanying consultation ahead of submitting to BEIS
reform agenda
(cid:188) Received updates on the developing UK Corporate Governance landscape, noting the range of guidance material
and proposals being formulated and their potential impact
(cid:188) Discussed and sought early views on the proposals made to strengthen the wider stakeholder voice in the
boardroom, in particular relating to the mechanisms proposed to strengthen the voice of employees
Terms of (cid:188) Conducted a thorough review of the Committee’s Terms of Reference during the year, taking into account the
reference responsibilities, obligations and best practice in the UK and Hong Kong
FOCUS ON
Implementation of the Board Diversity Policy
The Board’s Diversity Policy (the Policy) (cid:188) Only engaging search fi rms who are Detail of the Board’s diverse composition,
recognises the Group’s distinctive footprint signed up to the Voluntary Code of including detail of gender representation,
and long history for embracing a diverse Conduct for Executive Search fi rms experience and tenure on the Board along
board membership. The Policy with individual biographies of the Board
(cid:188) Reporting annually on the Executive
encapsulates the Board’s strongly held members are set out on pages 47 to 49
pipeline below the Board and the
belief that a highly effective Board is about of this report.
Board’s diversity, including progress
chemistry and behaviours, underpinned
by robust processes and aims to maintain being made on reaching the Board’s A copy of the full Board Diversity Policy
gender target can be viewed at sc.com/boarddiversitypolicy
that diverse outlook. Aligned to this broad
objective, the Policy has fi ve specifi c There were two changes to the Policy
objectives which the Board is committed objectives made in November 2017:
to in order to further enhance progress in the Board gender target was increased
this area: to a minimum of 33 per cent female
representation; and a new objective
(cid:188) Increasing the representation of women
was introduced, aimed at ensuring the
on the Board with an aim to have a
Board refl ects our diverse markets.
minimum of 33 per cent female
representation The Policy is implemented through
the Governance and Nomination
(cid:188) Ensuring that our Board refl ects the
Committee, which considers the Policy’s
diverse markets in which we operate
objectives as part of its overall succession
(cid:188) Ensuring that the Board is comprised planning discussions as well as part of
of a good balance of skills, experience, its selection and recommendation of
knowledge, perspective and varied individual candidates.
backgrounds
78 Standard Chartered
Annual Report 2017
79
Strategic
report
DIRECTORS’
REPORT
Risk
review
and
Capital
review
Financial
statements
Supplementary
information
FOCUS ON
Implementation of the Board Diversity Policy continued
The table below sets out the progress made against the four Policy objectives which were in place during 2017.
Board Diversity Policy objectives Progress update
Increasing the representation of women on the Board and (cid:188) Since 2014, when the gender target for the representation of
having 25 per cent female representation on the Board by women on the Board was introduced, female representation
2017. We remain supportive and engaged in increasing has increased from 10 per cent to 31 per cent today. Given the
this proportion further to 33 per cent. positive progress which has been made, the Committee took
the decision to increase the target in November 2017
Ensuring that the Board is comprised of a good balance (cid:188) The Committee has invested a signifi cant amount of time in
of skills, experience, knowledge, perspective and varied 2017 identifying potential future independent non-executive
backgrounds. directors for the medium to longer term, in order to introduce
new skills and perspective, whilst maintaining the right
balance of experience and knowledge and continuing to
refl ect the diversity of our markets. A new objective was
added to the Board Diversity Policy to ensure our markets
are adequately refl ected
(cid:188) The appointment of Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala further strengthens
the mix of skills on the Board, bringing geo-political, economic,
risk and development experience and expertise
(cid:188) Ngozi’s appointment has also brought experience and
representation from Africa
Only engaging search fi rms who are signed up to the (cid:188) The Committee has continued only to engage search fi rms
Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search fi rms. signed up to the Voluntary Code of Conduct
(cid:188) In 2017 the Committee engaged the executive search fi rm,
Egon Zehnder to assist in identifying potential independent
non-executive director candidates with the intention of building
a rich pool of individuals upon which to draw. Egon Zehnder is
signed up to the industry’s voluntary code and is committed to
supporting our ambitions of increasing female representation
and widening the Board’s diversity more generally
Reporting annually on the Executive pipeline below the (cid:188) The Committee has oversight of the Management Team
Board and the Board’s diversity, including progress being succession process and the senior management successors
made on reaching the Board’s gender target. to the Management Team. Good progress has been made
during the year in identifying and developing key successors
Committee effectiveness review
In 2017, an externally facilitated Committee effectiveness review was undertaken as part of the external Board effectiveness review. The broad
message was that the Committee is functioning well, with good process and open discussions. Some suggestions and feedback were made,
to enhance further its effectiveness, including a more regular timetable of meetings and enhanced communication and information fl ow back
to non-Committee members. These will be kept under review by the Committee through 2018.
Directors’ remuneration
DIRECTORS’ REPORT report
2 018 policy implementation for directors
The Committee reviews the salaries of the executive directors on an annual basis, taking into account increases made across the Group,
changes to the scope or responsibility of the role, the individual’s development in the role, and alignment to market-competitive levels.
For 2018, the Committee determined that there should be no changes to the fi xed remuneration of Bill Winters. The Committee determined
that a salary increase from £850,000 to £890,000 with effect from 1 April 2018 (an increase of just under 5 per cent) for Andy Halford was
appropriate. No change was made to his FPA, pension or benefi t entitlement. In aggregate, his fi xed remuneration increased by 3 per cent
as a result of this change. In making the decision, the Committee noted that Andy Halford’s fi xed remuneration was below that of some of
his global peers, that he had not received a salary increase since his appointment in June 2014 and his development in role since that time.
The Committee also took into account the average salary increase made to the broader employee population since 2014 which was, on
average, 4 per cent each year.
2018 annual incentive scorecard
The measures in the scorecard have been determined to align with the Group’s strategy. The targets are set annually by the Committee and
take into account the Group’s annual fi nancial plan and its priorities for the next few years within the context of the economic environment.
The Committee considers such targets to be commercially sensitive and that it would be detrimental to the interests of the Group to disclose
them before the end of the fi nancial year. Targets will be disclosed in the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts alongside the actual level of
performance achieved. The Committee will review the scorecard annually and may vary the measures, weightings and targets each year.
Financial measures make up 50 per cent of the annual incentive scorecard. Some of the strategic measures are also fi nancial in nature, and all
strategic measures are monitored by the Committee using a quantitative and qualitative framework.
STEP 1: Conduct gateway requirement to be met in order to be eligible for any annual incentive
Appropriate level of individual values and conduct exhibited during the course of the year
STEP 2: Measurement of performance against fi nancial and other strategic measures
Financial measures Weighting Target
Total income1 10% (cid:188) Target to be disclosed to shareholders retrospectively
Operating profi t1 10% (cid:188) Target to be disclosed to shareholders retrospectively
RoE2 plus CET13 underpin of the higher of 12% 20% (cid:188) Target to be disclosed to shareholders retrospectively
or the minimum regulatory requirement
Funding optimisation4 10% (cid:188) Target to be disclosed to shareholders retrospectively
Other strategic measures Weighting Target5
Strengthen foundations in risk and control 10% (cid:188) Improve credit quality
(cid:188) Maintain effective and sustainable AML and sanctions controls
(cid:188) Successfully deliver cyber risk management plan milestones
Focus on clients and growth, and drive cross- 10% (cid:188) Improve client satisfaction rating
bank collaboration (cid:188) Deliver client growth in target segments
(cid:188) Increase segmental collaboration
Improve effi ciency, productivity and service quality 10% (cid:188) Achieve gross cost savings and cost-to-income ratio targets
(cid:188) Improve productivity
(cid:188) Improve client on-boarding turnaround time
Embed innovation, digitisation and analytics 10% (cid:188) Deliver growth in digital volumes
(cid:188) Drive innovation through new products, solutions and services to clients
Invest in people, strengthen culture and conduct 10% (cid:188) Improve management diversity
(cid:188) Improve scores against employee engagement and culture of inclusion metrics
STEP 3: Assessment of personal performance
The Committee reviews the individual performance of each executive director in their areas of personal responsibility. Consistent with the Group’s
treatment of all employees, the Committee can make a positive adjustment to the annual incentive if the executive director’s performance is considered
strong and is not fully refl ected in the scorecard outcome (and vice versa), if appropriate. The Committee will generally consider personal performance
adjustments in the range of up to +/- 10 percentage points on the scorecard outcome.
1 Income, costs and impairment and resulting operating profi t relating to identifi able business units, products or portfolios from the date that have been approved for restructuring,
disposal, wind down or redundancy as a consequence of the Strategy Review announced 3 November 2015 are presented as restructuring and excluded from the underlying results
of the Group. This includes realised and unrealised gains and losses from management’s decisions to dispose of assets as well as residual income, direct costs and impairment of
related legacy assets of those identifi able business units, products or portfolios
2 RoE will be based on profi t attributed to ordinary shareholders, adjusted, on a tax-effected basis, for profi ts or losses of a capital nature, restructuring charges, amounts consequent to
investment transactions driven by strategic intent and infrequent/exceptional transactions that are signifi cant or material in the context of the Group’s normal business earnings for the
period. RoE would normally exclude regulatory fi nes but, for remuneration purposes, this would be subject to review by the Committee
3 The CET1 underpin will be dynamically set at the higher of 12% and the minimum regulatory level as at 31 December 2018 (taking into account any transition rules or material changes
in regulatory rules). In addition, the Committee has the discretion to take into account at the end of the performance period any changes in regulatory capital and risk-weighted asset
requirements that might have been announced and implemented after the start of the performance period
4 Initiative that targets an effi cient level and mix of funding (liabilities) to support the Group’s growth aspirations. Measured in basis points reduction in funding costs relative to a
normalised benchmark, which excludes the impact of interest rate movement, but requires a minimum level of growth in quality funding
5 Aligned to internal scorecards measuring in-year progress on multi-year initiatives
92 Standard Chartered
Annual Report 2017
111
Strategic
report
DIRECTORS’
REPORT
Risk
review
and
Capital
review
Financial
statements
Supplementary
information
Our senior leaders and People Managers Equally, in our recognition and interactions required by law to follow a disciplinary
also have a critical role to play in engaging with various employee representative bodies process) are governed by the Group
our people, ensuring that they are kept up (unions, works councils) globally, we are Disciplinary Policy and Procedure with clear
to date on key business information, our heavily infl uenced by the 1948 United Nations minimum standards. Where local law or
performance and strategy, their role in Universal Declaration of Human Rights regulation requires a different process with
executing the strategy and ensuring that (UDHR), several ILO conventions including the regards to dismissals and other disciplinary
they consult and listen to their teams’ views, Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining actions, country procedures vary accordingly
feedback and concerns. Across the Convention, 1949 (No. 98) and the Freedom to account for local law and regulation.
organisation team meetings with People of Association and Protection of the Right to
During 2017, the Group rolled out a refreshed
Managers, one-to-one discussions, and Organise Convention, 1948 (No. 87) as well
Flexible Working Practices Policy globally,
management meetings enable our people to as local country labour laws and acts that
allowing colleagues a range of fl exible
discuss and clarify anything they have heard protect employees’ rights to organise.
working options– this includes fl exible time,
or read and address any questions they may
In June this year, we integrated the working from home or part-time working. Our
have. The individual performance reviews
components of our Group Equal global minimum Parental Leave Benefi ts were
also provide the opportunity to discuss how
Opportunities, Diversity, Inclusion and Dignity also revised in April 2017, to support working
individuals, the team and the business area
at Work Policy into our Group Code of parents no matter where they are across the
contributed to our overall performance and
Conduct. Everyone who works at Standard Group. We now provide a minimum of 20
how any compensation awards relate to this.
Chartered is bound by the Code, whether calendar weeks fully paid maternity leave,
This mix of channels ensures that all our they are full-time, fi xed term, a director, a a minimum of leave of two calendar weeks
colleagues receive relevant information contractor, a subcontractor, a secondee, a for spouses or partners, and two calendar
promptly regardless of how they prefer to temporary employee or a voluntary worker, weeks for adoption leave. Combined, this
be communicated with and regardless of working in any company and in any capacity. places the Group above the International
where they sit in the organisation. The Group Code of Conduct is well- Labour Organisation minimum standards.
understood throughout the Group, supported
We continue to communicate with employees
by signifi cant Group communication, and this Health and safety
who have left the Group via our Alumni
is evident through our last My Voice Survey
network and all employees, past, present The Group complies with both external
results where 97 per cent of colleagues
and future are able to follow our progress regulatory requirements and internal policy
responded saying that they understood what
through social networks including the and standards for health and safety (H&S) in
the Group Code of Conduct meant for them
Group’s LinkedIn network, Facebook page all markets. It is Group policy to ensure that
in their role.
and Twitter stream. the more stringent of the two requirements is
Holistically, the Group Code of Conduct always met, ensuring our H&S practices meet
As well as capturing our people’s feedback
reinforces our commitment to providing or exceed regulatory minimum. Compliance
and views through team meetings, two-way
equality of opportunity and fair treatment in rates are reported quarterly to each country’s
communications and day-to-day dialogue,
employment. We do not accept unlawful management team. Based on our risk profi le,
our employee engagement survey has been
discrimination in our recruitment and our H&S standards defi ne our requirements
an important way for us to gather feedback
employment policies, terms, procedures, for H&S governance and assurance,
on how our colleagues feel about the
processes and decisions on the grounds of: workstation ergonomics, fi re safety, fi rst aid,
organisation, the challenges we are facing
race; colour; nationality; national or ethnic indoor air quality and the work environment,
and how we can make the Group a better
origins; gender; parental status; marital or civil vehicle and driving safety, incident reporting
place to work. The My Voice survey was
partner status; sexual orientation; gender and investigation, and accessible design.
launched in 2014 and last year we introduced
identity, expression or reassignment; HIV or
the Employee Net Promoter Score (eNPS)
AIDS status; employment status; fl exibility Major customers
to understand if our colleagues would
of working arrangements; disability; age;
recommend us as a place to work – an Our fi ve-largest customers together
religion; or belief. We appoint, train, develop,
important indicator of how satisfi ed we are accounted for 2.1 per cent of our total interest
reward and promote colleagues on the basis
at the Group. In September, we ran a short income and other operating income in the
of merit and ability. If colleagues become
edition of My Voice that focused on the eNPS year ended 31 December 2017.
disabled, every effort is made to ensure their
and manager and team effectiveness. Nearly
employment continues, with appropriate
90 per cent of our colleagues responded, Supply chain management
training and workplace adjustments where
which was the highest response rate we
have had. The insight gained has been used necessary. This is supported by the Global For information about how the Group
to inform action plans intended to resolve Guideline and Process for Workplace engages with suppliers on environmental and
highlighted issues. In 2018, we plan to run Adjustment that was re-launched in 2016 to social matters, please see our Supplier
a further My Voice survey. support colleagues with disabilities. Action Charter. As required under the UK Modern
may be taken to address disadvantage or Slavery Act 2015, the Group is required to
In addition, targeted local surveys and focus under representation among specifi c groups, publish a Modern Slavery Statement annually.
groups seek views on particular topics or with the aim of ensuring that employment The Group’s 2017 Modern Slavery Statement
from particular groups of colleagues. decisions are free from bias. will be issued by June 2018. This document
Less formal measures of sentiment and The Group’s approach to misconduct issues will give further detail on how the Group has
engagement include quick polls and (including dismissals) is guided by the Fair managed social risks in its supply chain
conversations on the Bridge. Combined Accountability principles which endorse during 2017.
with over 50 employee networks across
thoughtful judgement, proportionality,
18 countries and numerous champion Our Supplier Charter can be viewed at
procedural appropriateness and fairness
groups, these insights are invaluable in sc.com/suppliercharter
of outcomes. Dismissals on account of
shaping our thinking and future planning.
misconduct issues and performance (where
DIRECTORS’ REPORT Other disclosures
Pr oduct responsibility Group Code of Conduct Environmental impact of our
operations
We aim to treat our clients fairly at all times. The Board has adopted a refreshed Group
We design and offer products based on an Code of Conduct (the Code) relating to the We aim to minimise the environmental impact
understanding of our client needs; we protect lawful and ethical conduct of business and of our operations as part of our commitment
client privacy; we manage potential confl icts this is supported by the Group’s core values. to being a responsible company. We report
of interest; and we seek and use client on energy, water, paper and non-hazardous
It has been communicated to all directors
feedback to improve our products and waste data that are the basis of our
and employees, all of whom are expected to
services. The Group has in place policies and Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions
observe high standards of integrity and fair
procedures to ensure products are sold to management as well as the targets we have
dealing in relation to customers, employees
suitable target markets, comply with relevant set to reduce energy, water and paper use.
and regulators in the communities in which
laws and regulations and complaints are
the Group operates.
identifi ed and resolved.
Directors and employees are asked to
recommit to the Code annually, and this
was done during September 2017 and
will be repeated again in 2018.
Total scope 1, 2 and 3 Greenhouse Gas emissions for 2016 and 2017
Indicator 2017 2016 Units
Full-time employees (FTE) covered by reporting 86,021 86,693 FTE
Net internal area of occupied property covered by reporting 1,194,363 1,237,043 m2
Annual operating income (1 October to 30 September) 14,614 12,515 $million
Greenhouse Gas emissions
Scope 1 emissions (combustion of fuels) 7,922 13,562 tonnes COeq/year
2
Scope 2 emissions (purchased electricity) – location-based method 180,014 186,553 tonnes COeq/year
2
Scope 2 emissions (purchased electricity) – market-based method 180,014 186,553 tonnes COeq/year
2
Total Scope 1 & 2 emissions 187,936 200,115 tonnes COeq/year
2
Scope 3 emissions without distance uplift (air travel) 59,179 52,056 tonnes COeq/year
2
Scope 3 emissions with distance uplift (air travel) 64,505 56,741 tonnes COeq/year
2
Scope 3 emissions (outsourced data centre) 23,904 22,653 tonnes COeq/year
2
Total Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions 247,115 252,171 tonnes COeq/year
2
Total Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions/FTE 2.87 2.91 tonnes COeq/FTE/year
2
Total Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions/m2 207 204 kg COeq/m2/year
2
Total Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions/operating income 16.91 20.15 tonnes COeq/$m/year
2
Our reporting criteria document sets out the Our defi nition of different emission sources is and the potential for ‘double-counting’ in
principles and methodology used to calculate provided below. some markets. We will continue to monitor
the GHG emissions of the Group. the development of Scope 2 Quality Criteria,
Scope 1 as well as the development of residual mixes
For more information, review the reporting criteria at
sc.com/environmentcriteria. Scope 1 emissions are defi ned as arising by national agencies.
from the consumption of energy from direct
The Group does not use any form of offset
Our reporting methodology is based sources, such as by burning diesel within
such as carbon credits to offset Scope 1
upon the World Resources Institute/ generators, during the use of property
or Scope 2 emissions.
World Business Council for Sustainable occupied by the Group.
Development Greenhouse Gas Protocol
Scope 3
Corporate Accounting and Reporting Scope 2
Scope 3 emissions are defi ned as occurring
Standard (Revised Edition). Scope 2 emissions are defi ned as arising
as a consequence of the Group’s activities,
from the consumption of indirect sources of
We report on all emission sources required but arising from sources not controlled by us.
energy, such as consumption of purchased
under the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic The Group reports on Scope 3 emissions
electricity and heat, during the use of
Report and Directors’ Reports) Regulations. arising from air travel and our outsourced
property occupied by the Group.
Using conversion factors from the UK data centres in Hong Kong and the UK.
Government’s 2017 GHG Conversion Factors Despite the amendment issued to the
for Company Reporting and the International GHG Protocol in 2015, we report Scope 2
Energy Agency’s ‘CO Emissions from Fuel emissions under location-based methods
2
Combustion (2017 edition)’, emissions are and have decided not to use market-based
reported in metric tonnes of carbon dioxide emission factors where they are available to
equivalent (COe), encompassing the six us based on our reservations concerning the
2
Kyoto gases. attribution of reduced electricity emissions
112 Standard Chartered
Annual Report 2017
113
Strategic
report
DIRECTORS’
REPORT
Risk
review
and
Capital
review
Financial
statements
Supplementary
information
Reporting period Electronic communication EU legislation and guidance from the
Financial Reporting Council (FRC) sets out
The reporting period of our environmental The Board recognises the importance of
threats to audit independence including
data is from 1 October 2016 to 30 September good communications with all shareholders.
self-interest, self-review, familiarity, taking of a
2017. This allows suffi cient time for Directors are in regular contact with our
management role or conducting advocacy.
independent assurance to be gained prior institutional shareholders and general
In particular, maintaining KPMG’s
to the publication of results. Accordingly, presentations are made when we announce
independence from the Group requires
the operating income used in this inventory our fi nancial results. The AGM presents
KPMG to avoid taking decisions on the
corresponds to the same time period an opportunity to communicate with all
Group’s behalf. It is also recognised as
rather than the calendar year used in shareholders. Our shareholders are
essential that management retains the
fi nancial reporting. encouraged to receive our corporate
decision-making capability as to whether to
documents electronically. The annual and
act on advice given by KPMG as part of a
Assurance interim fi nancial statements, Notice of AGM
non-audit service. This means not just the
and dividend circulars are all available
Our Scope 1 and 2 emissions are assured ability to action the advice given, but to have
electronically. If you do not already receive
by an independent body, The Carbon Trust, suffi cient knowledge of the subject matter to
your corporate documents electronically and
against the requirements of ISO14064. be able to make a reasoned and independent
would like to do so in future, please contact
judgement as to its validity. All of this is
our registrars at the address on page 332.
Managing environmental and contained within the policy.
Shareholders are also able to vote electronically
social risk on the resolutions being put to the AGM through By way of (non-exhaustive) illustration of the
our registrars’ website at investorcentre.co.uk application of the principles set out in the
The Board is responsible for ensuring that
policy, the following types of non-audit
high standards of responsible business are
maintained and that an effective control Annual General Meeting services are:
framework is in place. This encompasses risk Our AGM will be held at 11:00am (UK time) Likely to be permissible under the
associated with clients’ operations and their (6:00pm Hong Kong time) on 9 May 2018 policy:
potential impact on the environment and local at etc.venues, 200 Aldersgate, St Paul’s,
communities. The Board recognises its London EC1A 4HD. Details of the business to (cid:188) Audit-related services – the Group would
also extend this to work on investor
responsibility to manage these risks and that be conducted at the meeting are contained in
circulars in most foreseeable
failure to manage them adequately would the 2018 Notice of AGM.
circumstances
have adverse impact.
Our 2017 AGM was held on 3 May 2017 at
The Board receives information to identify 11:00am (London time) (6:00pm Hong Kong (cid:188) An objective view as to whether the Group
has applied external laws and regulations
and assess signifi cant risks and opportunities time) at etc.venues, 200 Aldersgate, St Paul’s,
appropriately, such as checks over
arising from environmental and social London EC1A 4HD. Special business at the
regulatory compliance
matters, including climate change. These meeting included the approval of the power
issues are overseen by the Brand, Values and to allot ECAT1 Securities for cash without (cid:188) Internal control review services
Conduct Committee. The Committee reviews certain formalities. All resolutions were
sustainability priorities, and oversees the passed at the meeting. (cid:188) Due diligence over potential purchases
or sales
development of, and delivering against, public
commitments regarding the activities and/or Non-audit services Not permissible under the policy:
businesses that the Group will or will not
accept in alignment with our Here for good The Group’s non-audit services policy (the (cid:188) Any services that are prohibited (or to the
brand promise. At a management level, policy) was reviewed and approved by the extent they are restricted) by the published
the Group Head, Corporate Public and Audit Committee on 26 January 2017. The guidance from time to time
Regulatory Affairs leads the delivery of the policy is based on an overriding principle that, (cid:188) Tax or regulatory structuring proposals
Group’s approach to sustainability. to avoid any actual or perceived confl icts of
interest, the Group’s auditor should only be (cid:188) Services where fees are paid on a
Community engagement used when either there is evidence that there contingent basis (in whole or in part)
is no alternative in terms of quality and there is (cid:188) Consulting services that actively assist
We collaborate with local partners to no confl ict with their duties as auditor. KPMG in running the business in place of
support social and economic development can be used where the statutory auditor is management as opposed to providing
in communities across our markets. required to be used due to regulatory or legal or validating information, which
For more information on how we engage requirements. management then utilises in the
with communities go to the Stakeholders
and responsibilities section on page 36. The policy clearly sets out the criteria for operation of the business
when the Audit Committee’s prior written The policy is not a prescribed list of non-audit
ESG Reporting Guide approval is required. The policy requires a services that KPMG is permitted to provide.
conservative approach to be taken to the Rather, each request for KPMG to provide
We comply with the requirements for assessment of requests for KPMG to provide non-audit services will be assessed on its
environmental, social and governance non-audit services. Subject to the overriding own merits. The Audit Committee believes
reporting under Appendix 27 of the Hong principle, the Audit Committee’s view is that that such a case-by-case approach best
Kong Listing Rules with the exception of A1.3 KPMG can be of value in a range of non-audit accommodates (i) the need for the
on hazardous waste and A2.5 on packaging. service activities and should be allowed to appropriate rigour and challenge to be
As an offi ce-based fi nancial services provider, tender subject to the terms of the policy. applied to each request for KPMG to provide
we generate minimal hazardous waste or The Group is required to take a conservative non-audit services while (ii) preserving
packaging material. As such, these issues approach to interpreting the potential threats suffi cient fl exibility for the Group to engage
are not material and we do not report them. to auditor independence and requires KPMG to provide non-audit services where
commensurately robust safeguards they are able to deliver particular value to the
against them. Group and where the proposed services can
be provided without compromising KPMG’s
objectivity and independence.
115
Strategic
report
DIRECTORS’
REPORT
Risk
review
and
Capital
review
Financials
statements
Supplementary
information
Statement of directors’ responsibilities
The directors are responsible for preparing Under applicable law and regulations, the
the Annual Report and the Group and directors are also responsible for preparing
Company fi nancial statements in accordance a Strategic Report, Directors’ Report,
with applicable law and regulations. Directors’ Remuneration Report and
Corporate Governance Statement that
Company law requires the directors to
complies with that law and those regulations.
prepare Group and Company fi nancial
statements for each fi nancial year. Under that The directors are responsible for the
law they are required to prepare the Group maintenance and integrity of the corporate
fi nancial statements in accordance with and fi nancial information included on the
International Financial Reporting Standards Company’s website. Legislation in the UK
as adopted by the European Union (IFRSs governing the preparation and dissemination
as adopted by the EU) and applicable law of fi nancial statements may differ from
and have elected to prepare the Company legislation in other jurisdictions.
fi nancial statements on the same basis.
Responsibility statement of the directors in
Under company law the directors must not respect of the annual fi nancial report
approve the fi nancial statements unless they
We confi rm that to the best of our knowledge:
are satisfi ed that they give a true and fair
view of the state of affairs of the Group and (cid:188) The fi nancial statements, prepared in
Company and of their profi t or loss for that accordance with the applicable set of
period. In preparing each of the Group and accounting standards, give a true and fair
Company fi nancial statements, the directors view of the assets, liabilities, fi nancial
are required to: position and profi t or loss of the company
and the undertakings included in the
(cid:188) Select suitable accounting policies and
consolidation taken as a whole; and
then apply them consistently;
(cid:188) The Strategic report includes a fair review
(cid:188) Make judgements and estimates that are
of the development and performance
reasonable, relevant and reliable;
of the business and the position of the
(cid:188) State whether they have been prepared Company and the undertakings included
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by in the consolidation taken as a whole,
the EU; together with a description of the principal
risks and uncertainties that they face.
(cid:188) Assess the Group and the Company’s
ability to continue as a going concern, We consider the Annual Report and
disclosing, as applicable, matters related Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced
to going concern; and and understandable and provides the
information necessary for shareholders
(cid:188) Use the going concern basis of accounting
to assess the Group’s position and
unless they either intend to liquidate the
performance, business model and strategy.
Group or the Company or to cease
operations, or have no realistic alternative By order of the Board
but to do so
The directors are responsible for keeping
adequate accounting records that are
suffi cient to show and explain the Company’s Andy Halford
transactions and disclose with reasonable Group Chief Financial Offi cer
accuracy at any time the fi nancial position of 27 February 2018
the Company and enable them to ensure
that its fi nancial statements comply with the
Companies Act 2006. They are responsible
for such internal control as they determine
is necessary to enable the preparation of
fi nancial statements that are free from
material misstatement, whether due to fraud
or error, and have general responsibility for
taking such steps as are reasonably open
to them to safeguard the assets of the
Group and to prevent and detect fraud
and other irregularities.
116611
Strategic
report
Directors’
report
RISK
REVIEW
AND
CAPITAL
REVIEW
Financial
statements
Supplementary
information
Lines of Defence Defi nition Key responsibilities include
1st The businesses and functions engaged in or supporting (cid:188) Identify, monitor and escalate risks and issues to the Second
revenue generating activities that own and manage risks Line and senior management1 and promote a healthy risk
culture and good conduct
(cid:188) Manage risks within Risk Appetite and ensure laws and
regulations are being complied with
(cid:188) Ensure systems meet risk data aggregation, risk reporting and
data quality requirements set by the Second Line
2nd The control functions independent of the First Line that (cid:188) Identify, monitor and escalate risks and issues to the Group
provide oversight and challenge of risk management Chief Risk Offi cer, senior management1 and the Board and
to provide confi dence to the Group Chief Risk Offi cer, promote a healthy risk culture and good conduct
the management team and the Board (cid:188) Oversee and challenge First Line risk taking activities and
review First Line risk proposals
(cid:188) Propose Risk Appetite to the Board, monitor and report
adherence to Risk Appetite and intervene to curtail business if
it is not in line with existing or adjusted Risk Appetite
(cid:188) Set risk data aggregation, risk reporting and data quality
requirements
3rd The independent assurance provided by the Group Internal (cid:188) Independently assess whether management has identifi ed the
Audit Function, of the effectiveness of controls that support key risks in the business and whether these are reported and
First Line’s risk management of business activities, and the governed in line with the established risk management
processes maintained by the Second Line. Its role is defi ned processes
and overseen by the Audit Committee of the Board (cid:188) Independently assess the adequacy of the design of controls
and their operating effectiveness
1 Senior management in this table refers to individuals designated as Senior Management Functions (SMF) under the FCA and PRA Senior Managers’ Regime (SMR)
The Risk and Compliance In addition, the Risk and Compliance function Risk Appetite Principles
function is a centre of excellence that provides The Group Risk Appetite is in accordance
specialist capabilities of relevance to risk with our overall approach to risk
The Group Chief Risk Offi cer directly management processes in the broader management and our risk culture. We follow
manages the Risk and Compliance function organisation. the highest ethical standards required by our
that is separate and independent from the
stakeholders and ensure a fair outcome for
origination, trading and sales functions of Risk Appetite and profi le our clients, the effective operation of fi nancial
the businesses. The role of the function is:
markets, while at the same time meeting
We recognise the following constraints which
(cid:188) To maintain the Enterprise Risk determine the risks that we are willing to take expectations of regulators and law
Management Framework, ensuring it enforcement agencies. We set our Risk
in pursuit of our strategy and the
remains appropriate to the Group’s Appetite to enable us to grow sustainably
development of a sustainable business:
activities, is effectively communicated and to avoid shocks to earnings or our
and implemented across the Group, (cid:188) Risk capacity is the maximum level of general fi nancial health and to manage
and to administer related governance risk the Group can assume, given its our reputational risk in a way that does
and reporting processes current capabilities and resources, before not materially undermine the confi dence
breaching constraints determined by of our investors and all internal and
(cid:188) To uphold the overall integrity of the capital and liquidity requirements and external stakeholders.
Group’s risk/return decisions, and in
internal operational capability (including
particular to ensure that risks are properly
but not limited to technical infrastructure, Risk Appetite Statement
assessed, that risk/return decisions are
risk management capabilities, expertise), The Group will not compromise adherence to
made transparently on the basis of this
or otherwise failing to meet the its Risk Appetite in order to pursue revenue
proper assessment, and that risks are
expectations of regulators and law growth or higher returns.
controlled in accordance with the Group’s
enforcement agencies
standards and Risk Appetite Risk control tools such as exposure limits,
(cid:188) Risk Appetite is defi ned by the Group underwriting standards, scorecard cut-offs
(cid:188) To oversee and challenge the and approved by the Board. It is the and policies and other operational control
management of credit, country, market,
maximum amount and type of risk the parameters are used to keep the Group’s
operational, reputational, compliance,
Group is willing to assume in pursuit of its risk profi le within risk appetite (and therefore
conduct, information and cyber security
strategy. Risk Appetite cannot exceed also risk capacity). The Group’s risk profi le
and fi nancial crime risk types
risk capacity is its overall exposure to risk at a given point
The independence of the Risk and in time, covering all applicable risk types.
The Board has approved a Risk Appetite
Compliance function is to ensure that the Status against Risk Appetite is reported to the
Statement, which is underpinned by a set of
necessary balance in risk/return decisions is Board Risk Committee and the Group Risk
fi nancial and operational control parameters
not compromised by short-term pressures to Committee, including the status of breaches
known as Risk Appetite metrics and
generate revenues. and remediation plans where applicable.
associated thresholds. These directly
constrain the aggregate risk exposures that
can be taken across the Group. The Risk
Appetite Statement is supplemented by an
overarching statement outlining the Group’s
Risk Appetite Principles.
116633
Strategic
report
Directors’
report
RISK
REVIEW
AND
CAPITAL
REVIEW
Financial
statements
Supplementary
information
Executive and Board risk The Board appoints the Standard Chartered The Board Risk Committee receives regular
oversight Bank Court to maintain a sound system reports on risk management, including
of internal control and risk management. the Group’s portfolio trends, policies and
Overview The Group Risk Committee, through its standards, stress testing, liquidity and capital
authority received from the Court, oversees adequacy, and is authorised to investigate
The Board has ultimate responsibility for risk
effective implementation of the Enterprise or seek any information relating to an activity
management and is supported by the six
Risk Management Framework. The Group within its terms of reference. The Board
Board-level committees. The Board approves
Chief Risk Offi cer, as Chair of the Group Risk Committee also conducts deep dive
the Enterprise Risk Management Framework
Risk Committee, approves the use of reviews on a rolling basis of different sections
based on the recommendation from the
sub-committees to support the Group of the consolidated risk information report
Board Risk Committee, which also
Risk Committee overseeing risk at Business, that is provided at each scheduled
recommends the Group Risk Appetite
Regional, Country, or Principal Risk committee meeting.
Statement other than fi nancial crime risk.
Type level.
Financial crime risk related Risk Appetite is
reviewed and recommended to the Board by
the Board Financial Crime Risk Committee.
Risk committee governance structure
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Standard Audit Board Risk Brand Values Governance Board Remuneration
Chartered Committee Committee and Conduct and Financial Committee
Bank Court Committee Nomination Crime Risk
Committee Committee
Group Risk Committee Group Asset and Liability Committee Combined United States Operations
Risk Committee
Group Operational Risk Committee Operational Balance Sheet Committee
Group Financial Crime Risk Committee
Group Information Management
Governance Committee
Stress Testing Committee
IFRS 9 Impairment Committee
Group Reputational Risk Committee
The committee governance structure ensures that risk-taking authority
Corporate & Institutional Banking
and risk management policies are cascaded down from the Board to
Risk Committee
the appropriate functional, client segment and country-level senior
Private Banking Risk Committee management and committees. Information regarding material risk issues
and compliance with policies and standards is communicated to the
Greater China & North Asia
appropriate country, client segment, functional and Group-level senior
Risk Committee management and committees.
ASEAN & South Asia Risk Committee
Africa & Middle East Risk Committee Further details on the role of the Board and its committees in matters of
risk governance are covered in the Directors’ report (pages 53 to 82)
RISK REVIEW Risk management approach
Group Risk Committee The Group Operational Risk Committee, Group Asset and Liability Committee
The Group Risk Committee is responsible chaired by the Group Head, Operational Risk, Members of the Group Asset and Liability
for ensuring the effective management of ensures effective management of operational Committee are drawn principally from the
risk throughout the Group in support of the risk throughout the Group. Court. The Group Asset and Liability
Group’s strategy. The Group Chief Risk Committee is chaired by the Group Chief
The Group Financial Crime Risk Committee,
Offi cer chairs the Group Risk Committee, Financial Offi cer. The Group Asset and
chaired by the Group Chief Risk Offi cer,
whose members are drawn from the Liability Committee is responsible for
provides oversight of the effectiveness of
management team. The Committee determining the Group’s approach to balance
the Group’s policies, procedures, systems,
determines the overall Enterprise Risk sheet management and ensuring that, in
controls and assurance arrangements
Management Framework for the Group, executing the Group’s strategy, the Group
designed to identify, assess, manage,
including the delegation of any part of its operates within internally approved Risk
monitor, prevent and/or detect money
authorities to appropriate individuals or Appetite and external requirements relating
laundering, non-compliance with sanctions,
properly constituted sub-committees. to capital, liquidity and leverage risk. It is also
bribery, corruption and tax crime by
responsible for policies relating to balance
The Committee requests and receives third parties.
sheet management, including management
information to fulfi l its governance mandates
The Stress Testing Committee, chaired by the of our liquidity, capital adequacy and
relating to the risks to which the Group is
Global Head, Enterprise Risk Management, structural foreign exchange, and interest
exposed. As with the Board Risk Committee,
ensures the effective management of capital rate exposure and tax exposure.
the Group Risk Committee and Group Asset
and liquidity related enterprise-wide stress
and Liability Committee receive reports
testing in line with the Group’s enterprise- Combined United States Operations
that include information on risk measures,
wide stress testing policy and applicable Risk Committee
Risk Appetite metrics and thresholds,
regulatory requirements. The Committee The Combined United States Operations
risk concentrations, forward-looking
also enforces model governance for Credit Risk Committee was established in 2016 to
assessments, updates on specifi c risk
risk, Traded Credit risk and Market risk comply with the Dodd-Frank Act section 165
situations and actions agreed by these
throughout the Group in line with Risk Enhanced Prudential Standards (EPS Rules).
committees to reduce or manage risk.
Appetite and in support of Group strategy. The EPS Rules legislated a number of
In addition, the Committee approves and enhanced obligations on the US operations
Group Risk Committee sub-committees
provides oversight over stress testing commensurate with its structure, risk
The Corporate & Institutional Banking Risk models pertaining to Credit risk, Traded profi le, complexity, activities and size. The
Committee (CIBRC) covers risks arising Credit and Market risk, Liquidity risk and Committee receives its authority from the
from activities in Corporate & Institutional valuation models. Court of Standard Chartered Bank and is
Banking globally and in the Europe &
chaired by the Group Chief Risk Offi cer
Americas region as well as Group-wide The Group Information Management
with membership drawn from the Court of
Market and Traded Credit Risk. The CIBRC Governance Committee, chaired by the
Standard Chartered Bank and one iNED of
is chaired by the Chief Risk Offi cer, Corporate Group Chief Information Offi cer, ensures that
Standard Chartered PLC. Its responsibilities
& Institutional Banking. an effective Group strategy and approach
are drawn from the EPS Rules and pertain
to data quality management framework,
The Private Banking Risk Committee covers data quality management strategy, priorities, to liquidity, risk governance and oversight.
risks arising in Private Banking globally standards and metrics are in place and
including wealth management. It is chaired by maintained taking into account the
the Chief Risk Offi cer, Commercial Banking information-related requirements of
and Private Banking. internal and external stakeholders.
The three regional risk committees, chaired The IFRS 9 Impairment Committee,
by the Chief Risk Offi cer for each respective chaired by the Global Head, Enterprise
region, cover risks arising from their Risk Management, ensures the effective
respective region including Commercial management of expected credit loss
and Retail Banking. computation as well as stage allocation
The Group Reputational Risk Committee of fi nancial assets for quarterly fi nancial
oversees the implementation of the reporting within the authorities set by
reputational risk framework and takes the Group Risk Committee.
decisions on material and thematic
reputational risk issues.
164 Standard Chartered
Annual Report 2017
RISK REVIEW Risk management approach
Country risk
The Group defi nes Country Risk Appetite Statement
risk as the potential for default
The Group manages its country cross-border exposures following the
or losses due to political or
principle of diversifi cation across geographies and controls the business
economic events in a country
activities in line with the level of jurisdiction risk
Roles and responsibilities material risk issues or themes that come to
the Committee’s attention that relate to
The Global Head, Enterprise Risk
Country risk. The Group Risk Committee
Management is responsible for the
delegates the management of Country risk to
management and control of Country Risk
the Group Country Risk function. At a country
across the Group with the day-to-day
level, the Country Risk Committee (or
management and control activities delegated
Executive Risk Committee for subsidiaries) is
to the Global Head, Country Risk. They are
responsible for monitoring all risk issues for
supported by the Regional Chief Risk Offi cers
their given country, including Country risk.
and Country Chief Risk Offi cers who provide
second line oversight and challenge to the
Decision making authorities
fi rst line country risk management activities.
and delegation
The fi rst line ownership of country risk resides
with the country CEOs who are responsible Decision making and approval authorities
for the implementation of policy and allocation are guided by reference levels for countries.
of approved country risk limits across relevant Reference levels are guidelines to set country
businesses and product lines, as well as the limits in respect of Country risk. The reference
identifi cation and measurement of country levels are assessed by the Group Country
risks and communication of these and any Risk function and are functionally derived
non-compliance to policy to the second line. from factors including: Group Tier 1 capital,
sovereign risk grade, with adjustment for
Mitigation transfer risk; Group strategy, through Country
tiering; portfolio composition (short and
Policies and procedures are developed and
medium-term) and Country’s total foreign
deployed to put in place standards and
currency earnings.
controls that all countries must follow to
ensure effective management of country risk.
Monitoring
The policies include standards for the
acceptance and effective management of Monitoring and reporting is included in the
country risk in particular around identifi cation, policy and procedures and covers the
measurement, reporting and setting, and monitoring of exposures relative to Risk
the calibration and allocation of country risk Appetite thresholds and limits, and the
limits. The procedures outline the process for reporting of material exposures to internal
country risk limit setting, monitoring and committees and externally. The Group Risk
reporting exposures. Committee monitors Risk Appetite thresholds
on a traffi c-light indicator basis which provide
Governance Committee an early warning indicator of stress and
Oversight concentration risk. An escalation process to
the Board Risk Committee is in place based
At a Board level, the Board Risk Committee
on the traffi c-light indicators monitoring
oversees the effective management of
system. In addition, the Group Risk
Country risk. At the executive level, the Group
Committee and the Board Risk Committee
Risk Committee is responsible for approving
receive regular reports on exposures in
policies and control risk parameters,
excess of 1 per cent of total Group assets.
monitoring material risk exposures and
directing appropriate action in response to
168 Standard Chartered
Annual Report 2017
116699
Strategic
report
Directors’
report
RISK
REVIEW
AND
CAPITAL
REVIEW
Financial
statements
Supplementary
information
Market risk
The Group defi nes Market risk Risk Appetite Statement
as the potential for loss of
The Group should control its trading portfolio and activities to ensure
economic value due to
that market risk losses (fi nancial or reputational) do not cause material
adverse changes in fi nancial
damage to the Group’s franchise
market rates or prices
Roles and responsibilities up to MTCR’s Group-level reporting. This Stress scenarios are regularly updated to
aggregation approach ensures that the limits refl ect changes in risk profi le and economic
The Market Risk Framework, which sets the
structure across the Group is consistent with events. The MTCR function reviews stress
roles and responsibilities in respect of Market
the Group’s Risk Appetite. testing results and, where necessary,
risk for the Group, is owned by the Global
enforces reductions in overall market risk
Head, Market and Traded Credit Risk The Market Risk Stress Testing Policy is
exposure. The Group Risk Committee
(MTCR). The front offi ce acting as fi rst line designed to ensure that adherence to Group
considers the results of stress tests as part
of defence is responsible for the effective market risk stress appetite is achieved.
of its supervision of Risk Appetite.
management of market risks. The Market Stress testing aims at supplementing other
Risk Function is the second line control risk metrics used within the bank by providing Regular stress test scenarios are applied
function that performs independent a forward-looking view of positions and an to interest rates, credit spreads, exchange
challenge, monitoring and oversight of the assessment of their resilience to stressed rates, commodity prices and equity prices.
market risk management practices of the fi rst market conditions. Stress testing is This covers all asset classes in the Financial
line of defence. The fi rst and second lines of performed on all Group businesses with Markets banking and trading books.
defence are supported by the organisation market risk exposures, either where the risk is
Ad hoc scenarios are also prepared,
structure, job descriptions and authorities actively traded or where material risk remains.
refl ecting specifi c market conditions and for
delegated by market risk control owners. This additional information is used to inform
particular concentrations of risk that arise
the management of the market risks taken
within the business.
Mitigation within the Group. The outcome of stress tests
is discussed across the various business
The Group controls its trading portfolio and Governance Committee
lines and management levels so that existing
activities to ensure that market risk losses Oversight
and potential risks can be reviewed and
(fi nancial or reputational) do not cause
related management actions can be decided At a Board level, the Board Risk Committee
material damage to the Group’s franchise by
upon where appropriate. oversees the effective management of
assessing the various market risk factors.
These are captured and analysed using Policies are reviewed and approved by the Market risk. At the executive level, the Group
proprietary and custom built analytical tools, Global Head, MTCR annually to ensure their Risk Committee delegates responsibilities to
in addition to risk managers’ specialist market ongoing effectiveness and sustainability. the Corporate & Institutional Banking Risk
Committee (CIBRC) to act as the primary risk
and product knowledge.
Stress testing governance body for market risk and to the
MTCR has market risk policies and Stress Testing Committee for stress testing
procedures in place ensuring that appropriate Losses beyond the 97.5 per cent confi dence and model risk. The Group Risk Committee
market risk limits are implemented. The interval are not captured by a VaR calculation, also delegates limit authority to the Global
Group’s market risk exposure is aligned with which therefore gives no indication of the size Head, MTCR who is responsible for the
its appetite for market risk and assessing of losses in tail event situations. market risk.
potential losses that might be incurred by the
The VaR measurement is complemented by
Group as a consequence of extreme but Decision making authorities
weekly stress testing of market risk
plausible events. exposures to highlight the potential risk that and delegation
Market risk limits are applied as required by may arise from extreme market events that
The Group’s Risk Appetite Statement, along
the Market Risk Limits Policy and related are deemed rare but plausible.
with the key associated Risk Appetite metrics,
procedures. All businesses incurring market
Stress testing is an integral part of the market is approved by the Board, and responsibility
risk must do so in compliance with the
risk management framework and considers for market risk limits is then tiered accordingly.
Market Risk Limits Policy. The Policy requires
both historical market events and forward-
that market risk limits are defi ned at a level Subject to the Group’s Risk Appetite for
looking scenarios. A consistent stress testing
appropriate to ensure that the Group remains market risk, the Group Risk Committee sets
methodology is applied to trading and
within market Risk Appetite. The market Risk Group-level market risk limits and delegates
non-trading books. The stress testing
Appetite metrics are defi ned in terms of VaR authority for the supervision of all other
methodology assumes that scope for
and stress loss, therefore all material market market risk limits to the CIBRC and Market &
management action would be limited during
risks must be captured by these metrics. All Traded Credit Risk.
a stress event, refl ecting the decrease in
exposures throughout the Group that the
market liquidity that often occurs.
MTCR function is responsible for aggregate
117711
Strategic
report
Directors’
report
RISK
REVIEW
AND
CAPITAL
REVIEW
Financial
statements
Supplementary
information
Capital and liquidity risk
The Group defi nes capital risk Risk Appetite Statement
as the potential for insuffi cient
The Group maintains a strong capital position, including the
level or composition of capital to
maintenance of management buffers suffi cient to support its strategic
support our normal activities,
aims, and holds an adequate buffer of high quality liquid assets to
and liquidity risk as the potential
survive extreme but plausible liquidity stress scenarios for at least
for failure where we may not
60 days without recourse to extraordinary central bank support
have suffi cient stable or diverse
sources of funding or fi nancial
resources to meet our
obligations as they fall due
Roles and responsibilities Capital planning takes the following into Earnings Risk
account: Interest rate re-pricing risk is managed
The Treasurer is responsible for developing
centrally by Treasury Markets within market
a risk framework for capital and liquidity (cid:188) Current regulatory capital requirements
risk limits. The governance of Earnings
risk and for complying with regulatory and our assessment of future standards
Risk will develop through 2018 in line with
requirements at a Group level. The Treasury
(cid:188) Demand for capital due to the business regulatory guidelines for interest rate risk
and Finance functions provide independent
and loan impairment outlook and potential in the banking book. This will focus on challenge and oversight of the fi rst line risk
market shocks or stresses implementing this risk type within the Group’s
management activities relating to capital
Enterprise Risk Management Framework
and liquidity risk. In country, the Treasurer (cid:188) Available supply of capital and capital
supported by formal delegations of authority,
is supported by Treasury and Finance in raising options
additional policies and methodologies, data
implementing the capital and liquidity
The Funding Plan is also developed to ensure and model governance, a broader suite of
framework.
we have a credible plan to manage the future Risk Appetite metrics, limits, and ongoing
demand and supply of funds in a prudent yet reporting and monitoring of exposures
Mitigation
commercially effective manner. against these.
The Group develops policies to address
material capital and liquidity risks and aims to Structural FX Risk Stress testing
constrain its risk profi le within Risk Appetite. The Group’s structural position results from
Stress testing and scenario analysis are an
Risk Appetite is set for the Group and the Group’s non-USD investment in the share
integral part of the capital and liquidity cascaded down to the countries as limits. capital and reserves of subsidiaries and
framework, and are used to ensure that the
The Group also maintains a Recovery Plan branches. The FX translation gains or losses
Group’s internal assessment of capital and
which is a live document to be used by are recorded in the Group’s ‘Translation
liquidity consider the impact of extreme but
management in a liquidity or solvency Reserves’ with a direct impact on the Group’s
plausible scenarios on its risk profi le. They
crisis. The Recovery Plan includes a set of CET1 ratio.
provide an insight into the potential impact of
Recovery Indicators, an escalation framework
The Group contracts hedges to manage its signifi cant adverse events on the Group’s
and a set of management actions that could
structural FX position in accordance with a capital and liquidity position and how these
be effectively implemented in a liquidity
Board-approved Risk Appetite, and as a could be mitigated through appropriate
stress. A Recovery Plan is also maintained
result the Group has taken net investment management actions to ensure the Group
within each major country.
hedges (using a combination of derivative remains within the approved Risk Appetite
The approach to mitigation is detailed and non-derivative fi nancial investments) to and regulatory limits.
further below: partly cover its exposure to the Korean won,
Chinese renminbi and Taiwanese dollar to
Capital Planning mitigate the FX impact of such positions on
On an annual basis, strategic business its capital ratios.
and capital plans are drawn up covering a
fi ve-year horizon and are approved by the Liquidity and Funding Risk
Board. The capital plan ensures that At Group and country level we implement
adequate levels of capital and an effi cient various business-as-usual and stress risk
mix of the different components of capital metrics and monitor these against limits.
are maintained to support our strategy and This ensures that the Group maintains an
business plans. Treasury is responsible for adequate and well-diversifi ed liquidity buffer
the ongoing assessment of the demand for and stable funding base. The approach to
capital and the updating of the Group’s managing the risks and the Board-approved
capital plan. Risk Appetite metrics are assessed annually
through the Internal Liquidity Adequacy
Assessment Process.
117733
Strategic
report
Directors’
report
RISK
REVIEW
AND
CAPITAL
REVIEW
Financial
statements
Supplementary
information
Operational risk
The Group defi nes Operational Risk Appetite Statement
Risk as the potential for loss
The Group aims to control operational risks to ensure that operational
resulting from inadequate or
losses (fi nancial or reputational), including any related to conduct of
failed internal processes and
business matters, do not cause material damage to the Group’s
systems, human error, or from
franchise
the impact of external events
Roles and responsibilities Potential failures in processes are identifi ed Decision making authorities
by process owners and risk framework and delegation
The Operational Risk Framework (ORF) is set
owners using their expert judgment. These
by the Group Head, Operational Risk and potential failures are risk assessed against a Authority to make risk-related decisions is
approved by the Group Operational Risk pre-defi ned operational risk assessment delegated to individuals or committees
Committee. Group Operational Risk, in its matrix which must be approved by individuals with the requisite skills, judgement, and
role as the second line of defence, develops delegated within the Risk Authorities policy. perspective to ensure that the Group’s
the Operational Risk Framework and Risks that fall above the Group’s Risk control standards and risk/return objectives
monitors its application across the Group. Appetite levels require a time-bound are met. The Group has prescribed policies
The Operational Risk function challenges treatment plan to address the potential defi ning the scope and responsibility of the
process owners in ensuring the Group’s failures, and are monitored until the risk is authorised individuals. The authorities are
operational risk profi le is within Risk Appetite. reduced to within acceptable levels. reviewed at least annually to ensure they
remain appropriate to assess the quality of
Mitigation Stress testing decisions taken by the authorised individual.
The ORF sets out the Group’s overall As part of the operational risk management To ensure the appropriate infrastructure,
approach to the management of operational approach, the Group conducts stress testing people, processes, and controls are in
risk in line with the Group’s Risk Appetite. The using scenario analysis. Fifteen scenarios place to support change and product
approach reinforces the three lines of defence are identifi ed that test the robustness of the management, including mitigation of all
and serves to continually improve the Group’s Group’s processes, and assess the potential operational risks within Risk Appetite,
ability to anticipate and control material risks. impact to the Group. These scenarios include minimum governance standards are set at
It also requires the need for clear ownership anti-money laundering, sanctions, information the Group and Country levels. Signifi cant
and accountability for all processes across and cyber security and external fraud. changes to internal and external
the Group. Risk assessment is used to environments may give rise to operational
determine the design strength and reliability In 2017, we also participated in the Bank risks. Such changes with impact to client
of each process to prevent risks. of England stress test exercise and the segments, products and functions are
annual Internal Capital Adequacy subject to process governance at a PGC or
The operational risk management approach
Assessment Process. FORC. Standards for business products are
requires:
owned by Business Heads and Business
(cid:188) All processes and risks to be identifi ed, Governance Committee PGCs. All products must be approved
owned, and recorded in the Process Oversight to the standards set out in the policy,
Universe including completion of an operational
At a Board level, the Board Risk Committee
risk assessment.
(cid:188) Control tolerance standards to be set for oversees the effective management of
each control for quantity, materiality and Operational risk. At the executive level, the
Monitoring
timeliness of detection and rectifi cation Group Operational Risk Committee (GORC)
of defects oversees the operational risk profi le of the Operational Risk Appetite metrics are set
(cid:188) Monitoring of control performance against Group within the boundaries of the Group’s against each top risk. These are included
tolerance standards Risk Appetite and any limits and policies as part of the operational risk profi le which
set by authorised bodies of the Group. comprises the following elements:
(cid:188) Residual risks to be assessed by process The GORC has the authority to challenge,
owners and approved by risk framework constrain and, if required, stop business (cid:188) Top Risk performance against Risk
owners activities where risks are not aligned with Appetite
(cid:188) Prompt execution of treatment actions the Group’s Risk Appetite. (cid:188) Losses, near misses and related insights
The Group fulfi lls the requirements of the The GORC is supported by Business (cid:188) Changes to the internal or external
approach by defi ning and maintaining a Process Governance Committees (PGCs) environment
and Function Operational Risk Committees
process universe for all client segments, (cid:188) Results of audit and regulatory reviews,
(FORCs) which provide global oversight of
products, and functions. The Process or other independent fi ndings
all operational risks arising from processes
Universe is the complete set of processes
that collectively describe the activities of the within the Business and Function at the The operational risk profi le is aggregated
Group and is the common reference for the Group level. In addition, the Country and reported at relevant committees defi ned
approach to operational risk management. Operational Risk Committees (CORCs) at Group, business, regional, country
Each process is owned by a named oversee the management of operational risks and function level. This provides senior
individual who is responsible for the at the country (or entity) level. management with the relevant information to
outcomes of the process and the design, The GORC monitors the effectiveness of the inform their risk decisions. The completeness
monitoring and effectiveness of the control PGCs, FORCs and CORCs and challenges of the operational risk profi le ensures
environment. the risk decisions made within these appropriate prioritisation and promptness of
risk decisions, including risk acceptances
committees to remain within the Group’s
with treatment plans for risks that are beyond
Risk Appetite.
the acceptable threshold.
RISK REVIEW Risk management approach
Reputational risk
The Group defi nes reputational Risk Appetite Statement
risk as the potential for loss of
The Group aims to protect the franchise from material damage to
earnings or market capitalisation
its reputation by ensuring that any business activity is satisfactorily
as a result of stakeholders
assessed and managed by the appropriate level of management
taking a negative view of the
and governance oversight
organisation or its actions
Roles and responsibilities Stress testing Decision making authorities
and delegation
In February 2017, second line ownership Reputational risk is incorporated into the
of reputational risk was transferred from Group’s stress testing scenarios. For The Group Risk Committee provides
the Group Head, Corporate Affairs to the example, the Group may consider what Group-wide oversight on reputational risk,
Group Chief Risk Offi cer, with responsibility impact a hypothetical event leading to loss approves policy and monitors material risks.
delegated to the Global Head, Enterprise of confi dence among liquidity providers in The Group Reputational Risk Committee is
Risk Management. At country level, a particular market might have, or what the authorised to approve or decline reputational
the responsibility of reputational risk implications might be for supporting part of risk aspects of any business transaction,
management is delegated to Country the organisation in order to protect the brand. counterparty, client, product, line of business
Chief Risk Offi cers. Both the Global Head, and market within the boundaries of the
Enterprise Risk Management and Country Governance Committee Group’s Risk Appetite, and any limits
Chief Risk Offi cers constitute the second Oversight and policies set by authorised bodies of
line of defence, overseeing and challenging the Group.
the fi rst line which resides with the CEOs, The Brand, Values and Conduct Committee
Business Heads and Product Heads in retains Board level oversight responsibility Monitoring
respect of risk management activities of for reputational risk. Oversight from an
reputational-related risks. operational perspective falls under the remit Reputational risk policies and procedures
of the Group Risk Committee and the Board are applicable to all Group entities. However
Mitigation Risk Committee. The Group Reputational local regulators in some markets may impose
Risk Committee appointed by the Group Risk additional requirements on how banks
The Group’s reputational risk policy sets Committee in May 2017 ensures the effective manage and track reputational risk. In such
out the principal sources of reputational risk management of Reputational Risk across cases, these are complied with in addition to
and the responsibilities and procedures the Group. The Group Reputational Risk Group policies and procedures. Exposure to
for identifying, assessing and escalating Committee’s remit is to: reputational risk is monitored through:
reputational risks. The policy also defi nes
the control and oversight standards to (cid:188) Challenge, constrain and if required, to (cid:188) A requirement that process owners
stop business activities where risks are not establish triggers to prompt consideration
effectively manage reputational risk.
aligned with the Group’s Risk Appetite of reputational risk and escalation
The Group takes a structured approach to where necessary
the assessment of risks associated with (cid:188) Make decisions on reputational risk
how individual client, transaction, product matters assessed as high or very high (cid:188) The tracking of risk acceptance decisions
based on the Group’s reputational risk
and strategic coverage decisions may affect (cid:188) The tracking of thematic trends in
materiality assessment matrix, and
perceptions of the organisation and its secondary risk arising from other
matters escalated from the Regions
activities. Wherever a potential for stakeholder Principal Risk Types
or Client Businesses
concerns is identifi ed, issues are subject to
prior approval by a management authority (cid:188) Provide oversight of material reputational (cid:188) The analysis of prevailing stakeholder
concerns
commensurate with the materiality of matters risk and/or thematic issues arising from the
being considered. Such authorities may potential failure of other risk types
accept, decline the risk or impose conditions
upon proposals, to protect the Group’s
reputation. The Group recognises that there
is also the potential for consequential
reputational risk should it fail to control other
Principal Risk Types. Such secondary
reputational risks are managed by the
owners of each Principal Risk Type.
174 Standard Chartered
Annual Report 2017
117755
Strategic
report
Directors’
report
RISK
REVIEW
AND
CAPITAL
REVIEW
Financial
statements
Supplementary
information
Compliance risk
The Group defi nes Risk Appetite Statement
compliance risk as the
The Group has no appetite for breaches in laws and regulations; whilst
potential for regulatory
recognising that regulatory non-compliance cannot be always entirely
sanctions or loss from a
avoided, the Group strives to reduce this to an absolute minimum
failure on our part to comply
with laws or regulations
Roles and responsibilities Governance Committee
Oversight
The Group Head, Compliance sets standards
for compliance, establishes and maintains Compliance risk and the risk of non-
risk-based compliance frameworks and a compliance with laws and regulations
programme for monitoring compliance; resulting from failed processes and controls
provides support to senior management are overseen by Process Governance
on regulatory and compliance matters; Committees and Functional Operational
and is the Risk Framework Owner for Risk Committees, and Country Operational
Compliance Risk. Risk Committees that are in place for
each business, function and country. The
The Compliance Risk Framework sets out
Compliance and Regulatory Risk Committee
the roles and responsibilities in respect of
has a consolidated view of these risks and
compliance risk for the Group. Businesses
ensures that appropriate governance is in
and functions acting as the fi rst line of
place for these. In addition, the Committee
defence are responsible for ensuring that their
ensures that elevated levels of Compliance processes operate in a way that ensures
Risk are reported to the Group Operational
continued compliance with all applicable laws
Risk Committee, Group Risk Committee and
and regulations. The compliance function is
Board Audit Committee.
the second line that provides oversight and
challenge of the fi rst line risk management Decision making authorities
activities that relate to compliance risk. and delegation
The Compliance Risk Framework defi nes risk
Decision making and approval authorities
sub-types and delegates these to the most
follow the Enterprise Risk Management
appropriate control function to ensure that
Framework approach and risk thresholds.
the Compliance function as second line, can
The Group Head, Compliance has the
effectively provide oversight and challenge
authority to delegate second line
of the fi rst line risk management activities.
responsibilities within the Compliance
function to relevant and suitably qualifi ed
Mitigation
individuals. In addition, second line
The Compliance function develops and responsibilities including policy development,
deploys relevant policies and procedures implementation and validation as well as
setting out standards and controls for oversight and challenge of fi rst line processes
adherence by the Group to ensure continued and controls are delegated based on the
compliance with applicable laws and most appropriate control function for certain
regulations. Through a combination of control compliance risk sub-types.
monitoring and attestation, the Compliance
Risk Framework Owner seeks to ensure Monitoring
that all policies are operating as expected
The monitoring of controls designed to
to mitigate the risk that they cover.
mitigate the risk of regulatory non-compliance
in processes is carried out in line with the
Operational Risk Framework. The Group
has a monitoring and reporting process in
place for compliance Risk Appetite metrics,
which includes escalation and reporting to
Compliance and Regulatory Risk Committee,
Group Risk Committee and Board Risk
Committee as appropriate. In addition, there
is a Group Regulatory Reform team set up
to monitor regulatory reforms in key markets
and establish a protocol for horizon scanning.
RISK REVIEW Risk management approach
Conduct risk
The Group defi nes Conduct Risk Appetite Statement
Risk as the potential regulatory
The Group strives to maintain the standards in our Code of
sanctions or loss from a failure
Conduct and outcomes of our Conduct Framework, by
on our part to abide by the
continuously demonstrating that we “Do The Right Thing”
Group’s Conduct Risk
in the way we conduct business
Management Framework
Roles and responsibilities Governance Committee
Oversight
Conduct risk management and abiding by
the Group Code of Conduct is the The Board Risk Committee, Brand Values
responsibility of all employees in the Group. and Conduct Committee, Group Risk
The fi rst line businesses and functions are Committee, Group Operational Risk
responsible for reviewing their processes Committee and the Compliance Regulatory
and identifying conduct-related outcomes Risk Committee are responsible for ensuring
and ensuring controls are in place to mitigate that the Group remains within conduct Risk
these risks. The compliance function as Appetite. As Risk Framework Owner for
second line for conduct risk is responsible for conduct risk, compliance sets reporting
providing oversight and challenge to the fi rst thresholds for escalation of conduct risks
line to ensure the adequacy of the conduct to the Group Operational Risk Committee
risk management and that we remain within and Group Risk Committee. The Board
Risk Appetite. Risk Committee and the Brand Values
and Conduct Committee receive periodic
Mitigation reports on conduct risk assurance
against businesses and functions.
The Group Conduct Risk Management
Framework is designed to enable dynamic
Decision making authorities
risk control implementation and risk-based
decision making in line with the Group’s and delegation
Enterprise Risk Management Framework. Conduct risk authority is delegated through
The framework is supported by policies the Group ensuring appropriate spans of
including the Group conduct management control and suitable persons holding roles.
policy and the Group code of conduct as well Responsibilities are clearly articulated
as a range of other policies and procedures and ensure the split between ‘doing’
which address conduct related aspects in and ‘oversight’.
further granular detail. The management of
conduct risk includes the monitoring of Risk Monitoring
Appetite metrics and limits that are reported
to relevant governance committees. The Group regularly monitors the
effectiveness of mitigating controls and
Conduct risk identifi cation and mitigation
performance against Risk Appetite. Risk
are embedded in businesses and functions
Appetite metrics are defi ned at granular levels
through an end-to-end review of the Bank’s
and take into consideration measures such
critical processes. Controls are put in place
as the outcome of speaking up cases in
for conduct related risks that have been
individual countries and collectively as a
identifi ed within these processes. In-country
group. To further support managers with their
workshops are conducted to assist CEOs
responsibilities in respect of conduct risk, a
and management teams to identify conduct
conduct dashboard is in development which
related risks in their businesses and country
will provide managers with a snapshot of
strategies while leader-led training on
each respective business and function.
conduct issues and dilemmas are rolled out
across businesses and functions as we seek
to ensure conduct is seen in the broader
context, as opposed to behavioural conduct.
176 Standard Chartered
Annual Report 2017
117799
Strategic
report
Directors’
report
RISK
REVIEW
AND
CAPITAL
REVIEW
Financial
statements
Supplementary
information
Principal uncertainties
In 2017 we undertook a thorough review of our principal uncertainties, using the approach
described in the Enterprise Risk Management Framework section (page 160). The key results
of the review are detailed below
Key changes to our principal uncertainties
The following items have been removed as principal uncertainties:
(cid:188) ‘Evolving fi nancial crime and fraud’ and ‘cyber crime’. These form part of our Principal Risk Types which we control and mitigate through
distinct risk type frameworks, policies and Board-approved Risk Appetite
(cid:188) ‘Operational performance eroding confi dence in the Group’ as the Group has a clear Strategic Plan on which it has now started to deliver
The following items have been added as new principal uncertainties:
(cid:188) ‘Climate-related physical risks and transition risks’. There is growing stakeholder interest in these risks, including investors, regulators and
civil society, and it is anticipated that climate change will inform future regulatory approaches
(cid:188) ‘New technologies and digitisation. The rapid development of new technologies and digitisation, accompanied by changes in consumer
behaviour, could disrupt many elements of banking
Our list of principal uncertainties, based on our current knowledge and assumptions, is set out below:
Geopolitical considerations (Risk ranked according to severity)
Principal Risk trend
uncertainties since 2016 Context How these are mitigated/next steps
Increase (cid:188) Protectionist policies driven by nationalist agendas (cid:188) We assessed the impact of a severe world trade
in trade could disrupt established supply chains and invoke downturn triggered by rising protectionism as part of
protectionism retaliatory actions. Countries could introduce tariffs our 2017 stress tests. The insights gained as part of
driven by on goods and services available domestically or these were reviewed through internal governance and
nationalist from other economies. Such actions would impact we continue to build measures to link stress test
agenda global trade outcomes to business objectives in order to mitigate
(cid:188) Several authorities in our footprint continue to adopt potential downside risk from trade disruption
stringent standards on outsourcing or offshoring
activities and there is an increased focus on priority
sector lending requirements
Potetntial impact:
High (cid:188) The Group has a signifi cant revenue stream from
Likelihood: supporting cross-border trade and material off-shore
Medium support operations
Velocity of change:
Steady
Risk heightened in 2017 Risk remained consistent with 2016 levels
Potential impact (Gross risk assessment)
Refers to the extent to which a risk event might Likelihood (Gross risk assessment) Velocity of change
affect the Bank Refers to the possibility that a given event will occur Refers to when the risk event might materialise
High (signifi cant fi nancial or non-fi nancial risk) High (almost certain) Fast (risk of sudden developments with limited time
to respond)
Medium (some fi nancial or non-fi nancial risk) Medium (likely or possible) Moderate (good pace of developments with suffi cient
time to respond)
Low (marginal fi nancial or non-fi nancial risk) Low (unlikely or rare) Steady (gradual or orderly developments)
RISK REVIEW Risk management approach
Principal Risk trend
uncertainties since 2016 Context How these are mitigated/next steps
Korean (cid:188) Tensions could exacerbate weak investment (cid:188) Country level crisis management and contingency
peninsula spending and low growth in the developed world plans are in place for South Korea focused on the
geopolitical (cid:188) The Group has a material presence in South Korea business activities, credit risk, liquidity and capital risk,
tensions and nearby countries operations and employee safety. We have enhanced
the process for daily monitoring of key indicators and
actively review geopolitical risk levels
(cid:188) A North Korea stress scenario is run weekly as part
of the global stress test of market and traded risk
Potential impact:
High (cid:188) We are also assessing contagion risks arising from
Likelihood: Korean geopolitical risk levels and associated
Low
contingency plans
Velocity of change:
Fast (cid:188) Regular stress testing on exposures to South Korea
and Japan are conducted to support any required
action plans
Middle East (cid:188) In June 2017, the governments of Kingdom of Saudi (cid:188) The impact of the diplomatic crisis on our portfolio has
political Arabia, Bahrain, United Arab Emirates and Egypt been limited so far, however we are closely monitoring
situation announced that they were severing diplomatic ties a small number of clients which have been affected.
with Qatar escalating tensions in the Middle East (cid:188) Tightened controls over transactions and general
region governance have been put in place
(cid:188) A number of prominent Saudi Arabian princes, (cid:188) Potential for further event risks is constantly monitored
Potential impact: government ministers, and business people were at country and regional level
Medium arrested in Saudi Arabia in November 2017
Likelihood: (cid:188) A decision by the US president to recognise
Medium
Jerusalem as the capital of Israel, and start
Velocity of change:
Steady preparations for the US to move its embassy from
Tel Aviv, has the potential to further increase tensions
across the Middle East
(cid:188) The Group has a material presence across the region
Post-Brexit (cid:188) The outcome of the UK referendum to leave the (cid:188) We continue to assess and manage post-Brexit risk
implications European Union (Brexit) could have implications on and the practical implications through the Brexit
economic conditions globally because of changes Executive Committee chaired by a Management
in policy direction, which might in turn infl uence the Team Member
economic outlook for the eurozone. The uncertainties (cid:188) We are setting up a new European Union (EU)
linked to the Brexit negotiations process could subsidiary and optimising our EU structure to mitigate
Potential impact:
Low delay corporate investment decisions until there any potential impact to our clients, our colleagues
Likelihood: is more clarity and the Group as a result of Brexit, including loss of
High (cid:188) Both the EU and UK have indicated their support EU passporting rights
Velocity of change: for a transition period following the UK’s formal
Moderate
departure from the EU in March 2019, although it
is not clear how long this period will be for
(cid:188) The full implications of Brexit will only be known over
the next 12-18 months as negotiations progress.
(cid:188) The fi rst order impact of Brexit on the Group is limited
given the nature of the Group’s activity
Macroeconomic considerations
Principal Risk trend
uncertainties since 2016 Context How these are mititgated/next steps
Moderation (cid:188) Asia remains the main driver of global growth (cid:188) As part of our stress tests, severe stress in the global
of growth in supported by internal drivers, led by China economy associated with a sharp slowdown in China
key footprint (cid:188) Debt levels in China and the pace of transition to was assessed in 2017 and a refreshed scenario will be
markets led by more consumption-led growth remain a concern run in 2018
China (cid:188) Highly trade oriented economies such as Hong Kong (cid:188) Exposures that result in material loan impairment
and Singapore with close ties to China would charges and risk-weighted assets infl ation under stress
weaken in the event of an economic slowdown in tests are regularly reviewed and actively managed
China. Regional supply chain economies such as (cid:188) A global downturn with shocks concentrated on China
Potential impact: Korea, Taiwan and Malaysia would be impacted from and countries with close trade links with China is one
High a fall in economic activity of the regular market and traded risk stress tests
Likelihood: (cid:188) Greater China and South East Asian economies
Medium
remain key strategic regions for the Group
Velocity of change:
Steady
180 Standard Chartered
Annual Report 2017
118811
Strategic
report
Directors’
report
RISK
REVIEW
AND
CAPITAL
REVIEW
Financial
statements
Supplementary
information
Principal Risk trend
uncertainties since 2016 Context How these are mititgated/next steps
Sharp interest (cid:188) Signifi cant increases in interest rates from the (cid:188) We monitor on a centralised basis the contractual and
rate rises and historically low levels currently prevailing in many behavioural interest rate risk exposures, and manage
asset price markets could have an impact on the highly these within a clearly defi ned risk management
corrections leveraged corporate sector, as well as countries with framework and Risk Appetite
high current account defi cits or high foreign currency (cid:188) In many of our markets we have implemented
share of domestic debt. Property, commodities and loan-to-value and debt-to-income restrictions in
asset prices would also come under pressure response to rising property prices
Potential impact: (cid:188) Such sharp increases in interest rates could (cid:188) The Group has been actively managing its
High adversely impact the credit quality of the Group’s commodities portfolio, including energy, metals and
Likelihood: exposures, and our ability to reprice these mining exposures over the last few years. For new
Medium exposures in response to changes in the interest business, we are focused on deals that are resilient to
V M e o lo d c e it r y a o te f change: rate environment further price volatility
(cid:188) Relevant scenarios will be run as part of our stress test
programme in 2018
Environmental and social considerations
Principal Risk trend
uncertainties since 2016 Context How these are mitigated/next steps
Climate- New (cid:188) National governments have, through the UN (cid:188) We are developing an approach for assessing energy
related Framework Convention on Climate Change utilities clients’ power generation assets against a
physical risks (UNFCCC) process and Paris Agreement, made range of physical and transition risks, under multiple
and transition commitments to enact policies which support the climate scenarios and a range of time horizons. We
risks1 transition to a lower-carbon economy, limiting global are considering how we extend this to other sectors
warming to less than 2ºC and therefore mitigating the in 2018
most severe physical effects of climate change. (cid:188) We have, over time, reduced our Risk Appetite to
(cid:188) Such policies may however have signifi cant impacts, carbon-intensive sectors by introducing technical
for example, on energy infrastructure developed in standards for coal-fi red power plants, and restrictions
Potential impact:
Medium our markets, and thus present ‘transition’ risks for on new coal mining clients and projects. These
Likelihood: our clients standards are reviewed on a regular basis
Medium
(cid:188) Conversely, if governments fail to enact policies (cid:188) We have made a public commitment to fund and
Velocity of change:
Steady which limit global warming, the Group’s markets are facilitate $4 billion toward clean technology between
particularly susceptible to ‘physical’ risks of climate 2016 and 2020
change such as droughts, fl oods, sea level change
and average temperature change
(cid:188) There is growing stakeholder interest in these risks,
including investors, regulators and civil society
Legal considerations
Principal Risk trend
uncertainties since 2016 Context How these are mitigated/next steps
Regulatory (cid:188) The Group has been, and may continue to be, (cid:188) We have invested in improving compliance controls,
reviews and subject to regulatory actions, reviews, requests for including increasing the capacity and capabilities of
investigations, information (including subpoenas and requests for compliance resources, enhancing systems and
legal documents) and investigations across our markets, controls, and implementing remediation programmes
proceedings the outcomes of which are generally diffi cult to (where relevant)
predict and could be material to the Group (cid:188) We are cooperating with all relevant ongoing reviews,
(cid:188) The Group is also party to legal proceedings from requests for information and investigations
time to time, which may give rise to fi nancial losses
or adversely impact our reputation in the eyes of
Potential impact:
High our customers, investors and other stakeholders
Likelihood: (cid:188) In recent years, authorities have exercised their
High
discretion to impose increasingly severe penalties
Velocity of change:
Moderate on fi nancial institutions that have been accused of
violated laws and regulations, and there can be
no assurance that future penalties will not be of
increased severity
1 Physical risk refers to the risk of increased extreme weather events while transition risk refers to the risk of changes to market dynamics due to governments’ responses to
climate change
CAPITAL REVIEW Capital review
Regulatory update The Group remains a G-SII with a
CET1 ratio (phasing in of transition)
1.0 per cent G-SII CET1 buffer which began
The Group has been in discussions with 13.6 IAS 39 at 31 December 2017
to be phased in from 1 January 2016 and
the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA)
will be fully implemented by 1 January 2019. 13.5 IFRS 9 at 1 January 2018 before
about changes to the treatment of certain The buffer phases in at a rate of 0.25 per cent transitional relief
exposures where the country-specifi c default
per year. The Standard Chartered PLC 2016 13.6 IFRS 9 at 1 January 2018 after
experience is not deemed suffi cient for
G-SII disclosure is published at: investors. transitional relief
modelling purposes, including the application
sc.com/fullyearresults
of various loss given default (LGD) fl oors
Transitional relief relates to the phasing in of
based on the Foundation IRB approach.
IFRS 9 the impact of the initial adoption of the ECL
Following an agreement reached in the third Under IFRS 9 it is estimated that on day 1 the component of IFRS 9 into CET1, as permitted
quarter with the PRA, as of September 2017 Group’s CET1 ratio would not be impacted by Regulation (EU) 2017/2395 of the
the Group has applied a LGD fl oor to certain after applying 95 per cent transitional relief. European Parliament and of the Council.
fi nancial institutions exposures, which The day 1 end point impact (with no Under this approach, the balance of ECL
resulted in a RWA increase equivalent to transitional relief) reduces CET1 by an allowances in excess of the regulatory excess
about a 35 basis points reduction in the estimated 15 basis points, which is attributed EL and standardised portfolios are phased
Group’s CET1 ratio. Similar model changes to the following factors: into the CET1 capital base over 5 years.
relating to certain corporate exposures will The proportion phased in for the balance at
be introduced during the fi rst half of 2018. (cid:188) The increase in IFRS 9 expected credit each reporting period is: 2018 5 per cent;
loss (ECL) allowances for AIRB portfolios
These changes are expected to have a lower 2019 15 per cent; 2020 30 per cent; 2021
has been mostly offset by the existing
impact on the Group’s CET1 ratio than the 50 per cent; 2022 75 per cent. From 2023
regulatory excess expected loss (EL)
changes taken in 2017. onwards there is no transitional relief.
deduction
The European Commission is proposing
(cid:188) The increase in IFRS 9 ECL for
amendments to the Capital Requirements
standardised portfolios directly impacts
Regulation, CRD IV, the Bank Recovery
CET1 as there is no existing regulatory
and Resolution Directive and the Single
deduction to absorb the increase
Resolution Mechanism Regulation. Any
proposed reforms remain subject to change (cid:188) The increase in deferred tax assets
and until the proposals are in fi nal form it is recognised from IFRS 9 re-measurements
uncertain how they will affect the Group. and the increase in asset fair values as a
result of classifi cation and measurement
partially mitigates the impact of ECL.
Capital ratios
2017 2016
CET1 13.6% 13.6%
Tier 1 capital 16.0% 15.7%
Total capital 21.0% 21.3%
184 Standard Chartered
Annual Report 2017
197
Strategic
report
Directors’
report
Risk
review
and
capital
review
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
Supplementary
information
3. Our application of materiality and an overview Group profit before tax1 % Group total assets %
of the scope of our audit
12 10 2
Materiality 8 5 11 9 13
Materiality for the fi nancial statements as a whole was set with
88% 98%
reference to a benchmark of profi t before tax for the period
(2016: 92%) (2016: 95%)
(representing 4.1 per cent of the benchmark). The prior year materiality
used 4.3 per cent of a four-year normalised average Group profi t
83 82
before tax to mitigate volatility in determining our materiality. As results 87 88
are less volatile, an average benchmark was no longer considered
necessary. 2017 2016
Full scope for group audit purposes
Materiality for the Parent Company fi nancial statements as a whole
Specified risk-focused audit procedures
was set at $100 million (2016: $150 million), determined with reference Residual components
to a benchmark of net assets, of which it represents 0.4 per cent
(2016: 0.5 per cent). 1 Calculation used absolute profi t before tax. Specifi ed risk focused audit procedures
coverage was calculated using absolute income and expense.
We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or
uncorrected identifi ed misstatements affecting Group profi t and loss Scope – disclosure of IFRS 9 effect
or Group shareholders’ funds exceeding $5 million (2016: $7.5 million) The Group is adopting IFRS 9 Financial Instruments from 1 January
and affecting Group assets or liabilities exceeding $50 million (2016: 2018 and have included an estimate of the fi nancial impact of the
$75 million), in addition to other identifi ed misstatements that warrant change in accounting standard in accordance with IAS 8 Changes in
reporting on qualitative grounds. Accounting Estimates and Errors as set out in note 41. This disclosure
notes that the Group continues to refi ne its expected credit loss model
The Group team instructed component and hub auditors as to the
and embed its operational processes which may change the actual
signifi cant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks and the
impact on adoption. While further testing of the fi nancial impact will
information to be reported to the Group team. The Group team
be performed as part of our 2018 year end audit, we have performed approved the component materiality levels, which ranged from
suffi cient audit procedures for the purposes of assessing the
$1 million to $40 million, having regard to the size and risk profi le
disclosures made in accordance with IAS 8. Specifi cally we have:
of the components.
Group profit before tax Group materiality (cid:188) Considered the appropriateness of key technical decisions,
judgements, assumptions and elections made by management
$2.4bn (2016: $3.5bn) $100m (2016: $150m)
(cid:188) Considered key Classifi cation and Measurement decisions,
£100m including Business Model Assessments and Solely Payment
Whole financial statements materiality
(2016: $150m) of Principal and Interest (SPPI) outcomes
(cid:188) Involved credit risk modelling and economic specialists in
the consideration of credit risk modelling decisions and
macroeconomic variables, including forward economic
£40m guidance and generation of multiple economic scenarios
Range of materiality at 35 components
($1m to $40m) (2016: $1m to $40m) (cid:188) Considered transitional controls and governance processes
£5m
related to the approval of the estimated transitional impact
Misstatements reported to the audit
committee (2016: $7.5m)
Team structure
Scope – general As part of determining the scope and preparing the audit plan and
The scoping of our audit is focused on those components which are strategy, the Group team led a global planning conference to discuss
either individually signifi cant or contain signifi cant risks. Components key audit risks and obtain input from component and hub teams.
subject to specifi ed audit procedures (as shown in the table below)
Aside from the audit of the parent company, consolidation, valuation
were not individually fi nancially signifi cant to require an audit for
of fi nancial instruments, collective impairment provision methodology,
Group reporting purposes, but were either scoped on the basis of
goodwill impairment, material litigation and regulatory provisions,
the signifi cant volume of liquid assets and transactions processed
US deferred tax asset and IAS 8 disclosures in relation to IFRS 9,
in those components or contained signifi cant risks which were
all audit work was performed by component or hub auditors.
covered centrally. Additionally we continued to scope specifi ed audit
procedures on one of the Group joint ventures, which had high levels Further, the Group team visited 8 (2016: 11) component and hub
of credit impairment in the previous year. All central processing hubs locations, including China, Hong Kong, India, Bangladesh, Singapore,
(shared service centres) where in-scope fi nancial reporting processes South Korea, Malaysia and US. At these visits and meetings, the
are performed were subject to specifi ed audit procedures, primarily fi ndings reported to the Group team and any further work required by
over transaction processing and IT controls. the Group team were discussed in more detail. Regular conference
calls were also held with these component auditors and the majority
2017 2016
of the other countries that were not physically visited.
Total Group components1 172 178
The Group team inspected the component team’s key work papers
– Subject to full scope audit 35 35
related to the signifi cant risks and assessed the appropriateness of
– Subject to specifi ed procedures 4 4 conclusions and the consistency between reported fi ndings and
Hubs subject to specifi ed audit procedures 8 8 work performed.
1 Component defi ned as a reporting component within the Group’s consolidation
system, typically these are a branch or subsidiary of the Group.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditor’s report
4. We have nothing to report on going concern Corporate governance disclosures
We are required to report to you if:
We are required to report to you if:
(cid:188) we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation
(cid:188) we have identifi ed material inconsistencies between the knowledge
we acquired during our fi nancial statements audit and the directors’
to the directors’ statement in note 1 to the fi nancial statements on
statement that they consider that the annual report and fi nancial
the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material
statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable
uncertainties that may cast signifi cant doubt over the Group and
and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess
Company’s use of that basis for a period of at least twelve months
the Group’s position and performance, business model and
from the date of approval of the fi nancial statements; or
strategy; or
(cid:188) the related statement under the Listing Rules is materially
inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
(cid:188) the section of the annual report describing the work of the Audit
Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated
We have nothing to report in these respects. by us to the Audit Committee.
We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance
5. We have nothing to report on the other
Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven
information in the Annual Report
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specifi ed by the
The directors are responsible for the other information presented in Listing Rules for our review.
the Annual Report together with the fi nancial statements. Our opinion
We have nothing to report in these respects.
on the fi nancial statements does not cover the other information and,
accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly
6. We have nothing to report on the other matters
stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
on which we are required to report by exception
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so,
Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if,
consider whether, based on our fi nancial statements audit work,
in our opinion:
the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with
the fi nancial statements or our audit knowledge. Based solely on (cid:188) adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent
that work we have not identifi ed material misstatements in the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received
other information. from branches not visited by us; or
Strategic report and directors’ report (cid:188) the parent Company fi nancial statements and the part of the
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement
Based solely on our work on the other information:
with the accounting records and returns; or
(cid:188) we have not identifi ed material misstatements in the strategic report
(cid:188) certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specifi ed by law are
and the directors’ report;
not made; or
(cid:188) in our opinion the information given in those reports for the fi nancial
(cid:188) we have not received all the information and explanations we
year is consistent with the fi nancial statements; and
require for our audit.
(cid:188) in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance
We have nothing to report in these respects.
with the Companies Act 2006.
7. Respective responsibilities
Directors’ remuneration report
In our opinion the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to
Directors’ responsibilities
be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the
As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 115,
Companies Act 2006.
the directors are responsible for: the preparation of the fi nancial
statements including being satisfi ed that they give a true and fair
Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability
view; such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable
Based on the knowledge we acquired during our fi nancial statements
the preparation of fi nancial statements that are free from material
audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; assessing the Group and
relation to:
parent Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing,
(cid:188) the directors’ confi rmation within the Viability statement on page 43 as applicable, matters related to going concern; and using the going
that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the
facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business Group or the parent Company or to cease operations, or have no
model, future performance, solvency and liquidity; realistic alternative but to do so.
(cid:188) the Principal Risks disclosures describing these risks and explaining Auditor’s responsibilities
how they are being managed and mitigated; and
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
(cid:188) the directors’ explanation in the Viability statement of how they have the fi nancial statements as a whole are free from material
assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have misstatement, whether due to fraud or other irregularities (see below),
done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditor’s report. Reasonable
and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that
expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect
and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise
assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention from fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material if,
to any necessary qualifi cations or assumptions. individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to
infl uence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors’
fi nancial statements.
viability statement. We have nothing to report in this respect.
A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRC’s website at
www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities
198 Standard Chartered
Annual Report 2017
Notes to the
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS fi nancial statements
13. Financial instruments continued
Valuation of fi nancial instruments
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at
the measurement date in the principal market or, in the absence of this, the most advantageous market to which the Group has access at that
date. The fair value of a liability refl ects the Group’s non-performance risk. The fair value of fi nancial instruments is generally measured on the
basis of the individual fi nancial instrument. However, when a group of fi nancial assets and fi nancial liabilities is managed on the basis of its net
exposure to either market risks or credit risk, the fair value of the group of fi nancial instruments is measured on a net basis.
The fair values of quoted fi nancial assets and liabilities in active markets are based on current prices. A market is regarded as active if
transactions for the asset or liability take place with suffi cient frequency and volume to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis.
Wherever possible, fair values have been calculated using unadjusted quoted market prices in active markets for identical instruments held by
the Group. Where quoted market prices are not available, or are unreliable because of poor liquidity, fair values have been determined using
valuation techniques which, to the extent possible, use market observable inputs, but in some cases use non-market observable inputs.
Valuation techniques used include discounted cash fl ow analysis and pricing models and, where appropriate, comparison with instruments
that have characteristics similar to those of the instruments held by the Group.
The Valuation Control function is responsible for independent price verifi cation, oversight of fair value and prudent value adjustments and
escalation of valuation issues. Independent price verifi cation is the process of determining that the valuations incorporated into the fi nancial
statements are validated independent of the business area responsible for the product. The Valuation Control function has oversight of the fair
value adjustments to ensure the fi nancial instruments are priced to exit. These are key controls in ensuring the material accuracy of the valuations
incorporated in the fi nancial statements. The market data used for price verifi cation may include data sourced from recent trade data involving
external counterparties or third parties such as Bloomberg, Reuters, brokers and consensus pricing providers. Valuation Control performs a
semi-annual review of the suitability of the market data used for price testing. Price verifi cation uses independently sourced data that is deemed
most representative of the market the instruments trade in. To determine the quality of the market data inputs, factors such as independence,
relevance, reliability, availability of multiple data sources and methodology employed by the pricing provider are taken into consideration.
Formal committees for the business clusters, consisting of representatives from Group Market Risk, Product Control, Valuation Control and the
business meet monthly to discuss and approve the valuations of the inventory. For Principal Finance, the Investment Committee meeting is held
on a quarterly basis to review investments and valuations. The business cluster valuation committees fall under the Valuation Benchmarks
Committee as part the of the valuation governance structure.
Signifi cant accounting estimates and judgements
The Group evaluates the signifi cance of fi nancial instruments and material accuracy of the valuations incorporated in the fi nancial statements
as they involve a high degree of judgement and estimation uncertainty in determining the carrying values of fi nancial assets and liabilities at
the balance sheet date.
(cid:188) Fair value of fi nancial instruments are determined using valuation techniques (see below) which, to the extent possible, use market
observable inputs, but in some cases use non-market observable inputs. Changes in the observability of signifi cant valuation inputs can
materially affect the fair values of fi nancial instruments
(cid:188) When establishing the exit price of a fi nancial instrument using a valuation technique, the Group considers valuation adjustments in
determining the fair value (page 236)
(cid:188) In determining the valuation of fi nancial instruments, the Group makes judgements on the amounts reserved to cater for model and
valuation risks, which cover both Level 2 and Level 3 assets, and the signifi cant valuation judgements in respect of Level 3 instruments
(page 237)
(cid:188) Where the measurement of fair value is more judgemental in respect of Level 3 assets, these are valued based on models that use a
signifi cant degree of non-market-based unobservable inputs
Valuation techniques
Refer to the fair value hierarchy explanation – Level 1, 2 and 3 (page 237)
(cid:188) Financial instruments held at fair value
– Loans and advances: These include loans in the global syndications business which were not syndicated as of the balance sheet date
and other fi nancing transactions within Financial Markets. These loans are generally bilateral in nature and, where available, their valuation
is based on market observable credit spreads. If observable credit spreads are not available, proxy spreads based on comparable loans
with similar credit grade, sector, and region, are used. Where observable credit spreads and market standard proxy methods are available,
these loans are classifi ed as Level 2. Where there are no recent transactions or comparable loans, these loans are classifi ed as Level 3
– Debt securities – asset backed securities: Asset backed securities are priced based on external prices obtained from consensus
pricing providers, broker quotes, recent trades, arrangers’ quotes, etc. Where an observable price is available for a given security, it is
classifi ed as Level 2. In instances where third-party prices are not available or reliable, the security is classifi ed as Level 3. The fair value of
Level 3 securities is estimated using market standard cash fl ow models with input parameter assumptions which include prepayment
speeds, default rates, discount margins derived from comparable securities with similar vintage, collateral type, and credit ratings.
Therefore, once external pricing has been verifi ed, an assessment is made whether each security is traded with signifi cant liquidity based
on its credit rating and sector. If a security is of high credit rating and is traded in a liquid sector, it will be classifi ed as Level 2, otherwise it
will be classifi ed as Level 3
234 Standard Chartered
Annual Report 2017
Notes to the
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS fi nancial statements
41 . IFRS 9 Financial Instruments
We estimate that the changes in measurement arising on the initial adoption of IFRS 9 results in a decrease in shareholders’ equity of
approximately $1.1 billion, net of tax, at 1 January 2018 (Company: approximately $7 million). This will result in an increase in the Group’s loan
impairment provisions from $5.7 billion under IAS 39 to approximately $6.7 billion ($0.2 billion of which is held in other liabilities against undrawn
commitments and fi nancial guarantees) and an estimated gain of $35 million from changes in the classifi cation and measurement of assets and
liabilities under IFRS 9. The impact on regulatory capital is set out in the Risk review and Capital review (page 184).
The Group continues to refi ne its expected credit loss models and embed its operational processes which may change the actual impact
on adoption.
The estimated impact of the remeasurement and reclassifi cations and the impact of the changes to the recognition and measurement of credit
impairment loss allowances, net of the related tax impacts, is set out by category of reserve in the table below.
Share
capital
and Capital Fair value Parent
share and Own credit Available- through Cash fl ow company Other Non-
premium merger adjustment for-sale OCI hedge Translation Retained shareholders’ equity controlling
account reserves reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings equityinstruments interests Total
$million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million
As at
31 December
2017 7,097 17,129 54 83 – (45) (4,454) 26,641 46,505 4,961 341 51,807
Net impact of: – – – (83) (82) – – 200 35 – – 35
IFRS 9
reclassifi cations – – – (83) (86) – – 169 – – – –
IFRS 9 re-
measurements – – – – 4 – – 31 35 – – 35
Expected credit
loss, net – – – – 65 – – (1,296) (1,231) – (8) (1,239)
Tax impact – – – – (6) – – 182 176 – – 176
Impact of IFRS 9
on share of joint
ventures and
associates, net
of tax – – – – (1) – – (51) (52) – – (52)
Estimated IFRS 9
transition
adjustments – – – (83) (24) – – (965) (1,072) – (8) (1,080)
As at 1 January
2018 7,097 17,129 54 – (24) (45) (4,454) 25,676 45,433 4,961 333 50,727
The Group will publish an IFRS 9 transition report prior to the issuance of the fi rst quarter 2018 Interim Management Statement. This transition
report will be unaudited and provide more extensive disclosures to explain the opening IFRS 9 adjustments and to provide a bridge from IAS 39
to IFRS 9. In particular it will include further details in respect of:
(cid:188) Quantitative information to reconcile impairment provisions, key risk metrics and the classifi cation and measurement of fi nancial instruments
under IAS 39 to those under IFRS 9
(cid:188) The effect of IFRS 9 on signifi cant accounting policies, credit risk policies and practices and related governance processes
(cid:188) Explanation of the inputs, assumptions and estimation techniques used in determining expected credit losses and the key judgements made
in applying IFRS 9
(cid:188) Qualitative information regarding volatility and areas of measurement uncertainty
(cid:188) Supplementary quantitative information on credit risk and classifi cation and measurement of fi nancial instruments in IFRS 9 terms, including
stage distribution and an analysis of credit quality and expected credit loss allowances coverage by stage and segment for the loan portfolio
Classifi cation and measurement of fi nancial instruments
IAS 39
There are four asset classifi cations under IAS 39: fair value through profi t or loss (FVTPL), incorporating trading and instruments designated at
FVTPL; loans and receivables; held to maturity; and available-for-sale. The classifi cation of assets into these categories was determined based
on a mix of management intent and product characteristics. Only the available-for-sale category has no restrictions on classifi cation.
In respect of hybrid fi nancial assets, the embedded derivative component may be separated and measured at fair value, unless closely related
to the host contract. If this is not possible, the entire instrument must be designated at FVTPL.
Other instruments may be designated at FVTPL if they are managed on a fair value basis, or where the designation would eliminate or
signifi cantly reduce an accounting mismatch.
304 Standard Chartered
Annual Report 2017
SUPPLEMENTARY Supplementary
INFORMATION sustainability information
Supplementary sustainability information
Contributing to sustainable economic growth
Environmental and social risk management
Employees trained in environmental and social risk management 2017 2016 2015
Employees trained1 568 118 1,708
1. Employees targeted for training are those in client-facing roles and relevant support teams. A new policy framework, launched in 2014, required a signifi cant level of training to be
delivered in 2015 and thus a one-off increase in training attendance
Equator Principles
Project advisory
Project fi nance mandates Project-related corporate loans mandates
Cat A1 Cat B2 Cat C3 Cat A Cat B Cat C
Total 2015 4 9 – – 1 – –
Total 2016 7 6 – – – – 2
Total 2017 1 11 1 1 2 – 1
2017
Sector
Mining – 1 – – – – –
Infrastructure 1 3 1 – 1 – –
Oil & Gas – 3 – 1 – – 1
Renewables – – – – – – –
Telecoms – – – – – – –
Power – 2 – – 1 – –
Other – 2 – – – – –
Region
Greater China – – 1 – 1 – –
North East Asia – – – – – – –
South Asia – 2 – – – – –
ASEAN – – – – – – –
MENAP – 7 – 1 – – 1
Africa 1 2 – – – – –
Americas – – – – 1 – –
Europe – – – – – – –
Designation4
Designated – – – – 1 – –
Non-Designated 1 11 1 1 1 – –
Independent Review
Yes 1 11 1 1 2 – –
No – – – – – – –
1. ’Cat A’ or Category A are projects with potential signifi cant adverse environmental and social risks and/or impacts that are diverse, irreversible or unprecedented
2. ’Cat B’ or Category B are projects with potential limited adverse environmental and social risks and/or impacts that are few in number, generally site-specifi c, largely reversible and
readily addressed through mitigation measures
3. ’Cat C’ or Category C are projects with minimal or no adverse environmental and social risks and/or impacts
4. ’Designation’ is split into designated and non-designated countries. Designated countries are deemed by the Equator Principles to have robust environmental and social governance,
legislation systems and institutional capacity designed to protect their people and the natural environment. Non-designated countries are countries that are not found on the list of
designated countries. The list of countries can be found at www.equator-principles.com
328 Standard Chartered
Annual Report 2017
329
Strategic
report
Directors’
report
Risk
review
and
capital
review
Financial
statements
SUPPLEMENTARY
INFORMATION
Being a responsible company
Environment
2017 2016 2015
Measured Scaled Up Measured Scaled Up Measured Scaled Up
Offi ces reporting 188 – 189 – 190 –
Net internal area of occupied property (m2) 814,886 1,194,363 840,510 1,237,043 846,480 1,261,320
Green lease clause inclusion1 (%) 76 – 71 – 67 –
Occupied net internal area where data is collected (%) 85 – 72 – 73 –
Full-time employees (FTE) covered by reporting 64,648 86,021 58,699 86,693 58,528 84,076
Annual operating income from 1 October to 30 September ($m) – 14,614 – 12,515 – 17,566
Greenhouse gas emissions – Absolute (tonnes COeq/year)
2
Scope 1 emissions (combustion of fuels) 5,870 7,922 6,312 13,562 8,865 16,904
Scope 2 emissions (purchased electricity) 113,908 180,014 136,570 186,553 132,030 184,912
Scope 1 & 2 emissions 119,777 187,936 142,882 200,115 140,895 201,816
Scope 3 emissions without distance uplift (air travel) 59,179 59,179 49,393 52,056 54,519 54,519
Scope 3 emissions with distance uplift (air travel) 64,505 64,505 53,839 56,741 59,426 59,426
Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions 178,956 247,115 192,275 252,171 195,414 256,335
Scope 3 emissions (Global Data Centre)2 – 23,904 – 22,653 – 19,339
Greenhouse gas emissions – Intensity
Scope 1 & 2 emissions/m2 (kg COeq/m2/year) 147 157 170 162 166 160
2
Scope 1 & 2 emissions/FTE (tonnes COeq/FTE/year) 1.85 2.18 2.43 2.31 2.41 2.40
2
Scope 3 emissions/FTE without distance uplift (tonnes COeq/FTE/year) 0.69 0.69 0.57 0.60 0.64 0.65
2
Scope 3 emissions/FTE with distance uplift (tonnes COeq/FTE/year) 0.75 0.75 0.62 0.65 0.69 0.71
2
Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions/m2 (kg COeq/m2/year) 220 207 229 204 231 203
2
Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions/FTE (tonnes COeq/FTE/year) 2.77 2.87 3.28 2.91 3.34 3.05
2
Scope 1 & 2 emissions/$m operating income (tonnes COeq/$m/year) – 12.86 – 15.99 – 11.49
2
Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions/$m operating income (tonnes COeq/$m/year) – 16.91 – 20.15 – 14.59
2
Environmental resource effi ciency
Energy
Indirect non-renewable energy consumption3 (GWh/year) 168 277 185 245 201 284
Indirect renewable energy consumption4 (GWh/year) 21 19 23 20 14 13
Direct non-renewable energy consumption5 (GWh/year) 24 32 26 47 36 68
Direct renewable energy consumption6 (GWh/year) – – – – – –
On-site renewable energy consumption7 (MWh/year) 330 330 247 247 276 276
Energy consumption (GWh/year) 213 327 234 312 252 365
Energy consumption/FTE (kWh/FTE/year) 3,291 3,807 3,986 3,599 4,306 4,341
Energy consumption/m2 (kWh/m2/year) 261 274 278 252 298 289
Water
Water consumption (ML/year) 649 1,149 917 1,181 793 1,037
Water consumption/FTE (m3/FTE/year) 10 13 16 14 14 12
Water consumption/m2 (kL/m2/year) 0.80 0.96 1.09 0.95 0.94 0.82
Paper8
Print paper consumption (ktonnes/year) 1.62 1.89 – – – –
Print paper consumption/FTE (kg/FTE/year) 21.97 – – – – –
Waste9
Waste (ktonnes/year) 4.8 – 5 – 5.2 –
Waste/FTE (kg/FTE/year) 74 – 85 – 89 –
Waste reused or recycled (%) 24 – 38 – 27 –
Retired IT equipment reused or recycled (ktonnes/year) 0.19 – 0.15 – 0.19 –
1. Percentage of green lease clause inclusion in all new and renewed leases within the reporting year. Refer to the eco-effi ciency criteria for more information
2. Scope 3 emissions calculated from total energy consumption from our outsourced global data centres
3. Indirect non-renewable energy refers to purchased electricity from non-renewable sources
4. Indirect renewable energy refers to purchased electricity from off-site renewable sources
5. Direct non-renewable energy refers to the gross calorifi c values of fuels consumed on-site
6. Direct renewable energy refers to the gross calorifi c values of renewable fuels consumed on-site
7. On-site renewable energy refers to renewable energy generated and consumed on-site
8. During 2017, we introduced new methodology to measure paper consumption. This resulted in both an increase in reporting and overall paper consumption. Data from 2015 and 2016
is no longer considered representative and is, therefore, not shown
9. During 2017, more branches measured their waste generation and those reporting were found to have generated more waste per branch than our previous sample population. As a
result, total waste generated across the portfolio increased. We are reviewing our scaling-up approach; scaled-up data from 2015 and 2016 is no longer representative, and is,
therefore, not shown
SUPPLEMENTARY Supplementary
INFORMATION sustainability information
Additional notes on environment data
The emissions within our inventory correspond to a reporting period of 1 October 2016 to 30 September 2017. This is to allow suffi cient time for
independent assurance to be gained prior to the publication of results. Accordingly, the operating income used in this inventory corresponds to
the same period rather than the calendar year used in fi nancial reporting. This is consistent with international carbon reporting practice.
We use measured data to calculate our energy and water use across our properties, which we then ‘scale up’ to refl ect the portion of the
portfolio we do not gather measurements from.
‘Measured’ data is collected from Global Environment Management System (GEMS) properties, defi ned as all properties that are over 10,000
square feet for energy and water.
‘Scaled-up’ data represents measured data taken from a sample of branches, which is then extrapolated to refl ect the Group’s total property
footprint for energy and water. For paper and business travel, it is defi ned per full-time employee (as at the end of the reporting period).
Carbon abatement benefi t from indirect renewable energy is not taken into account.
Total energy use is normalised to refl ect periods of vacancy in certain sites during the reporting period.
Net internal areas used for water use intensity do not include sites that have reported zero water consumption in demised areas.
Warehouses, empty land, car parks, unoccupied sites for business continuity purposes, residential properties, space occupied by automated
teller machines, vaults and space sub-let to tenants are excluded from this extrapolation.
Scope 3 emissions are drawn from reliable data collected from 20 countries, based on seating class and distance fl own.
As we operate largely outside of the UK, all fl ights domestic or international with fl ight distance of less than 463km, labelled by the Department
for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (DBEIS) as ‘domestic fl ights’, have been classifi ed as ‘short haul’. All fl ights with distance fl own
ranging from 463 to 1,108km, labelled by DBEIS as ‘short haul’ have been classifi ed as ‘medium haul’.
The Carbon Trust is our independent third-party assurance provider for Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions. In 2017, our measured Scope 1
and Scope 2 emissions were assured by The Carbon Trust, ensuring the accuracy and credibility of our reporting.
For additional information, review the Independent Assurance Report at
sc.com/environmentalassurance
Financial crime prevention
2017 1 2016
Staff completing anti-money laundering (AML) e-learning 99.2 97.7
Staff completing anti-bribery and corruption (ABC) e-learning 99.3 97.9
Staff completing sanctions e-learning 99.6 97.9
1. In 2017, we introduced a Mandatory Learning reporting standard that records employees who have completed training as well as those who are yet to complete, but remain within the
allotted time for completion. Previously, we only recorded completion as at the report date. As a result, 2017 completion rate percentage values have slightly increased and are not
directly comparable to prior periods
Investing in communities
Community expenditure
2017 20163 2015
$million $million $million
Cash contributions 22.1 21.3 24.5
Employee time (non-cash item) 18.1 17.3 20.0
Gifts In Kind (non-cash item)1 0.1 – 0.1
Management costs 4.5 4.7 5.5
Total (direct investment by the Group) 44.8 43.3 50.1
Leverage2 5.0 9.6 10.2
Total (incl. leverage) 49.8 52.9 60.3
Percentage of prior year operating profi t (PYOP)4 12.18 – 1.42
1 Gifts In Kind comprises all non-monetary donations
2 Leverage data relates to the proceeds from staff and other fundraising activity
3. Figures for 2016 are restated to include additional contributions
4. PYOP for 2016 was not meaningful based on 2015 operating profi t
330 Standard Chartered
Annual Report 2017
SUPPLEMENTARY
INFORMATION Major awards 2017
Banking awards continued Sustainability indices
The Asset Triple A Global Custodian Agent The Stars of China Dow Jones
Asset Servicing, Banks in Frontier Sustainability Index
Fund Management & Markets Survey
Investors Awards
(cid:188) Bangladesh – Market
Outperformer
(cid:188) Mauritius – Market
Outperformer (cid:188) Best Bank for RMB Services
(cid:188) Mauritius – Category (cid:188) Best Bank for Commodities We were included in the Dow
(cid:188) Best Custody Specialist – Outperformer (cid:188) Best Bank for Corporate Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI),
Africa Social Responsibility World Index. We were noted
(cid:188) Sri Lanka – Market for our strong performance in
(cid:188) Best Fund Administrator for Outperformer (cid:188) Best OBOR Initiative (Foreign) corporate governance, tax
Retail Funds – Vietnam
(cid:188) Sri Lanka – Category strategy, environmental reporting,
(cid:188) Best Subcustodian – Jordan Outperformer The Asset Benchmark corporate citizenship and
Research Awards – anti-crime policy and measures.
(cid:188) Best Subcustodian – Korea (cid:188) Zambia – Market Top Banks in Asian
(cid:188) Best Subcustodian – Middle Outperformer Currency Bonds
FTSE4Good
East (Highly Commended) (cid:188) Zimbabwe – Market
(cid:188) Custodian Banker of the Year Outperformer
(Margaret Hardwood-Jones, (cid:188) Zimbabwe – Category
Global Securities Services) Outperformer
World’s Best Treasury (cid:188) Jordan – Global Outperformer (cid:188) Top Bank in Government
and Cash Management (cid:188) Jordan – Category Bonds (Offshore) – Rank #1
We were listed in the
Providers Outperformer
(cid:188) Top Bank in Corporate Bonds FTSE4Good Index. The
(cid:188) Tanzania – Category (Offshore) – Rank #1 FTSE4Good measures
Outperformer the performance of
The Asset Triple A companies that meet globally
Asia Risk Awards 2017 Country Awards recognised corporate
responsibility standards.
(cid:188) Best Bank for Payments and
Collections (Global) CDP
(cid:188) Best Bank for Working Capital
Optimisation – Asia-Pacifi c (cid:188) Currency House of the Year
(cid:188) Best Bond Advisor (Global,
(cid:188) Best Bank for Liquidity (cid:188) Clearing Bank of the Year India)
Management – Africa
(cid:188) Commodities House of
the Year We participate in the CDP
World’s Best Trade Reporting awards Climate questionnaire.
Finance Providers Asiamoney New Silk
Road Finance Awards (cid:188) IR Society award for Best
FTSE100 Annual Report
(2016 Annual Report)
(cid:188) ICSA award for Risk
Disclosure of the Year
(2016 Annual Report)
(cid:188) Best Supply Chain Finance (cid:188) Best international Bank in
Bank in Africa
Southeast Asia for BRI
(cid:188) Best Trade Finance Providers (Belt & Road Initiative)
in Bangladesh (cid:188) Best Bank for BRI-related
fi nance in Southeast Asia
334 Standard Chartered
Annual Report 2017