Strategic report
We are a leading international
cross-border bank
Standard Chartered is a bank like no other. Our unique footprint,
diverse experience, capabilities and culture set us apart. They
enable us to capitalise on opportunities for our business, our
customers, and the communities we serve.
Guided by our Purpose – to drive commerce and prosperity through
our unique diversity – we connect more than 59 of the world’s most
dynamic markets, backing the people and businesses who are the
engines of global growth.
Together, we are developing new economies that can deliver
sustained prosperity in the decades ahead. As our brand promise
makes clear, we are here for good.
Financial KPIs1 Non-financial KPIs2
Return on tangible equity Common Equity Tier 1 ratio Diversity and inclusion:
women in senior roles4
8.0 14.0
% % 32.1
120bps 19bps %
1.4ppt
Underlying basis At the top of 13-14% target range
Sustainability Aspirations
Total shareholder return met or on track
6.8 41 85.7
%
200bps
%
43ppt
%
2.8ppt
Statutory basis
Other financial measures1, 3
Operating income Profit before tax Earnings per share
$16,255 $4,762 101.1
m m cents
15% 15% 15.3 cents
Underlying basis Underlying basis Underlying basis
$16,318 $4,286 85.9
m m cents
16% 30% 24.6 cents
Statutory basis Statutory basis Statutory basis
Stakeholders
Throughout this report, we use these icons to represent the different stakeholder groups for whom we create value.
Clients Regulators and Investors Suppliers Society Employees
governments
1 Reconciliations from underlying to statutory and definitions of alternative performance measures can be found on pages 126 to 130
2 For more information on our culture of inclusion see page 64, and for more on our Sustainability Aspirations see page 64
3 Year-on-Year growth on Operating Income and Profit before tax is on constant currency basis
4 Senior leadership is defined as Managing Directors and Band 4 roles (including Management Team)
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 01
Strategic
report
In this report
Strategic report 26 Client segment reviews 134 Directors’ report
02 Who we are and what we do 29 Regional reviews 184 Directors’ remuneration report
04 Where we operate 32 Group Chief Financial 232 Risk review and Capital review
06 Group Chairman’s statement Officer’s review 326 Financial statements
10 Group Chief Executive’s review 42 Risk overview 474 Supplementary information
52 Stakeholders and Sustainability
14 Market environment
124 Non-financial information
18 Business model
statement
22 Our strategy
126 Underlying versus statutory results
24 Our Stands
131 Alternative performance measures
132 Viability statement
Client segment reviews Regional reviews
29
p
26
p
10
22 52
p p p
Our strategy Stakeholders and Sustainability Group Chief Executive’s review
About this report
Sustainability reporting Alternative performance measures Unless another currency is specified, the word ‘dollar’ or symbol ‘$’ in this document
means US dollar and the word ‘cent’ or symbol ‘c’ means one-hundredth of one
We adopt an integrated approach The Group uses a number of alternative US dollar. All disclosures in the Strategic report, Directors’ report, Risk review and
to corporate reporting, embedding performance measures in the discussion of its Capital review and Supplementary information are unaudited unless otherwise
non-financial information throughout performance. These measures exclude certain stated. Unless context requires within the document, ‘China’ refers to the People’s
our annual report. While not complying items which management believes are not Republic of China and, for the purposes of this document only, excludes Hong Kong
Special Administrative Region (Hong Kong), Macau Special Administrative Region
in full, in preparing this report, we have representative of the underlying performance (Macau) and Taiwan. ‘Korea’ or ‘South Korea’ refers to the Republic of Korea. Asia
given consideration to the principles of the business and which distort period-on- includes Australia, Bangladesh, Brunei, Cambodia, India, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia,
of the voluntary Global Reporting period comparison. They provide the reader Myanmar, Nepal, Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Vietnam, Mainland
Initiative, SASB Standards and the with insight into how management measures China, Hong Kong, Japan, Korea, Macau, Taiwan; Africa and Middle East (AME)
includes Angola, Bahrain, Botswana, Cameroon, Côte d’Ivoire, Egypt, The Gambia,
World Economic Forum Stakeholder the performance of the business.
Ghana, Iraq, Jordan, Kenya, Lebanon, Mauritius, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Qatar,
Capitalism Metrics framework. Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, South Africa, Tanzania, UAE, Uganda, Zambia,
Zimbabwe; and Europe and Americas (EA) include Argentina, Brazil, Colombia,
Read more in our ESG report Falkland Islands, France, Germany, Ireland, Jersey, Poland, Sweden, Türkiye, the UK,
sc.com/ESGreport and the US. Within the tables in this report, blank spaces indicate that the number
is not disclosed, dashes indicate that the number is zero and nm stands for not
For more information on meaningful. Standard Chartered PLC is incorporated in England and Wales with
Standard Chartered please limited liability, and is headquartered in London. The Group’s head office provides
guidance on governance and regulatory standards. Standard Chartered PLC.
visit sc.com
Stock codes are: LSE STAN.LN and HKSE 02888.
Strategic report Who we are
Who we are Our Purpose is to drive commerce and prosperity
through our unique diversity. We serve three client
and what we do segments in three regions, supported by eight
global functions.
Operating income
Our client segments
1. Corporate, Commercial $10,045m
and Institutional Banking
Underlying basis
3. 4.
Supporting clients with their transaction
4. 1. banking, financial markets, corporate 1fi.n ance $10,086m
and borrowing needs, Corporate, Commercial
Statutory basis
and Institutional Banking provides solutions
to more than 20,000 clients in the world’s
fastest-growi3n.g economies and most active
t rade corridors.
Total operating income
$16,255m 2. Consumer, Private $6,016m
and Business Banking
Underlying basis
Underlying basis Serving more than 10 million individuals and
$6,016m
small businesses, Consumer, Private and
Business Banking focuses on the affluent
Statutory basis
$16,318m and emerging affluent in many of the world’s
2.
f astest-growing cities.
Statutory basis
3. Ventures $29m
2. Ventures promotes innovation, invests in Underlying basis
disruptive financial technology and explores
alternative business models. Its pipeline of $29m
over 30 ventures includes two cloud-native
d igital banks. Statutory basis
4. Central and other items $165m
Underlying basis
$187m
Statutory basis
Enabling and supporting our businesses
Global functions Our client-facing businesses are supported by our global
functions, which work together to ensure the Group’s operations
run smoothly and consistently.
Conduct, Financial Crime Group Chief Financial Officer Legal
and Compliance Comprises seven support functions: Provides legal advice and support
Partners internally and externally Finance, Treasury, Strategy, Investor to the Group to manage legal risks
to achieve the highest standards in Relations, Corporate Development, and issues.
conduct and compliance to enable Supply Chain Management and
Risk
a sustainable business and fight Property. The leaders of these
Responsible for the overall second-line-
financial crime. functions report directly to the
of-defence responsibilities related to
Group Chief Financial Officer.
Corporate Affairs, Brand risk management, which involves
and Marketing Group Internal Audit oversight and challenge of risk
Manages the Group’s marketing and An independent function whose management actions of the first line.
communications and engagement primary role is to help the Board
Transformation, Technology
with stakeholders to protect and and Management Team protect the
& Operations
promote the Group’s reputation, assets, reputation and sustainability
Responsible for leading bank-wide
brand and services. of the Group.
transformation and for reshaping
Human Resources the Group’s systems and technology
Maximises the value of investment platforms to ensure we provide robust,
in people through recruitment, responsive, and innovative technology
development and employee digital solutions. Also manages all
engagement. client operations, seeking to provide an
optimal client service and experience
across the board.
02 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 07
Strategic
report
In 2022, Standard Chartered continued to make good wealth management across Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
progress executing its strategy and delivered a strong We are providing new digital solutions, strategic partnerships
financial performance. The external environment we and advanced analytics to our Mass Retail clients, lifting
faced was mixed. The war in Ukraine created significant participation and generating Affluent clients of the future.
uncertainty in Europe and other key markets. However, the And we continue to focus on our Sustainability agenda that
global economy remained resilient, with the recent relaxation supports a just transition ensuring that we are making a
of COVID-19 restrictions in China providing more grounds for difference where it matters most. The additional strategic
optimism in 2023. actions we are targeting to accelerate our performance are
outlined in Bill’s report and I am pleased to say that we are
As these events unfold, it is clear that Standard Chartered’s
executing against these at pace.
role – connecting high-growth and emerging markets in Asia,
Africa and the Middle East with each other, and with Europe Our strategy is underpinned by our Stands, the areas where
and the Americas – is more vital than ever. Our financial we have set long-term ambitions for impact in the markets
performance, and the resiliency of our unique geographic we call home: Accelerating Zero, Resetting Globalisation and
footprint, mean that we are well-positioned to capitalise on Lifting Participation.
opportunities for growth in the years ahead.
Through Accelerating Zero, we are progressing on our
Our performance in 2022 is due in large part to the incredible commitment to be net zero in our financed emissions by 2050,
work of our over 83,000 people across the world, supported supporting a just transition – one where climate objectives are
by the Management Team, and led by Group Chief Executive met without depriving emerging markets of their opportunity
Bill Winters. Every day, Standard Chartered colleagues deliver to grow and prosper – which will underpin future social and
first-rate results for our clients, providing tailored products and economic prosperity. Our 2050 Net Zero roadmap was
services to help them grasp the opportunities ahead. endorsed by our shareholders at our 2022 Annual General
Meeting, following extensive engagement with shareholders,
Anchored in our Purpose, we continue to drive commerce and
clients and NGOs. During 2022 we facilitated $23.4 billion of
prosperity in markets across the world through our unique
sustainable finance, as we make progress towards our 2030
diversity. I am extremely proud of what we have achieved
target of mobilising $300 billion in sustainable finance.
together in 2022, and I look forward to the opportunities
that 2023 will bring. Through Resetting Globalisation we are leveraging our
network and role as one of the world’s largest trade banks,
Continued financial momentum to create a fairer and more inclusive model of global growth,
and building more resiliency in global supply chains through
We continue to deliver an improving financial performance.
international diversification and digital technologies. We are
Bill Winters, and Andy Halford, our Group Chief Financial
also helping to address funding gaps for businesses across
Officer, will provide more detail on our financial results in
Asia, Africa and the Middle East, particularly for small and
the following pages.
micro enterprises.
Last year, our income grew by 15 per cent to $16.3 billion, our
Through Lifting Participation, we continue to broaden access
highest since 2014, and underlying profit before tax increased
to financial services and create specialised programmes to
by 15 per cent to $4.8 billion. It is clear that our strategy to
support disadvantaged communities across our footprint.
drive improved levels of return on tangible equity (RoTE) is
We remain hugely proud of our Futuremakers programme,
working. RoTE for the year increased to 8 per cent, 120 basis
which was set up in 2019 to improve economic inclusion in
points higher year-on-year. We have revised our target RoTE
our markets, with a focus on women and girls, and in 2022
for 2024 from 10 per cent to exceed 11 per cent, with further
worked with over 335,000 young people. In India and Kenya,
growth thereafter.
we have set up Solv, an e-commerce marketplace for small
The Group maintained a robust liquidity position and our and medium-sized enterprises, which served over 230,000
capital levels remain strong, with a Common Equity Tier 1 customers in 2022.
(CET1) ratio of 14 per cent at year end, at the top of our
Elsewhere, we worked in partnership with FairPrice Group to
target range of 13-14 per cent. Our asset quality and earnings
successfully launch the fully digital Trust Bank in Singapore,
trajectories are strong, which gives us confidence that we can
gaining 450,000 customers in our first five months.
deliver substantial shareholder returns of at least $5 billion by
the end of 2024, as set out last year. SC Ventures continues to invest in potentially transformational
business models and ecosystems, connecting more and
The Board is very clear that any capital not required for
more clients with economic opportunity. This is just one
growth will be distributed to shareholders. We have increased
example of our collaborative approach to innovation and
the total dividend by 50 per cent to 18 cents per share and
financial inclusion.
have announced a new share buy-back of $1 billion, starting
imminently. This will take total capital, including dividends,
Enhancing governance and culture
announced since the start of 2022, to $2.8 billion, which is well
over halfway towards our target. During the year, we continued to drive diversity in our Board,
recognising the benefits of a diverse mix of gender, social
Ambition and progress on our strategic priorities and ethnic backgrounds, skills, knowledge, experience
and adequate reflection of our key markets to support
Our strategy, outlined in 2021, aligns us with the major
our strategy.
engines of global growth and we see strong progress across
our four strategic priorities: Network, Affluent, Mass Retail The Board was heartened by the results of the externally
and Sustainability. facilitated effectiveness review of the Board and its
committees. It assessed the Board’s progress since the
Our Network business continues to facilitate investment,
last external review in 2019 and concluded that the Board
trade and capital flows across our geographic footprint,
continues to operate effectively while also identifying some
where we are one of the leading international wholesale
areas for improvement. More detail on process, outcomes
banks. Our Affluent business is setting the standard for
and actions can be found on page 156.
Group Chairman’s statement In 2022, we welcomed four new independent non-executive
directors to the Board. Shirish Apte was appointed in May
continued
2022 and joins the Remuneration, Audit and Board Risk
Committees. Robin Lawther was appointed in July 2022 and
joins the Remuneration and Board Risk Committees. Jackie
Hunt was appointed in October 2022 and joins the Audit and
Financial KPIs Culture and Sustainability Committees. Dr. Linda Yueh was
appointed in January 2023 and joins the Remuneration and
Culture and Sustainability Committees. I am delighted to
Underlying return on tangible equity (RoTE) %
welcome them and I am sure that we will greatly benefit
+120 from their broad experience and contributions.
bps
Last year also saw the retirement of several long-standing
2022 8.0% and valued directors from our Board. I would like to thank
Naguib Kheraj, former Deputy Chairman and Chair of the
2021 6.8% Board Risk Committee who retired from the Board in April
for his unwavering dedication and most significant and
2020 3.0% impactful contributions to the Board and Committee
discussions. My thanks also go to Byron Grote who retired
Aim Deliver sustainable improvement in the Group’s
from the Board in November for his many contributions to the
profitability as a percentage of the value of shareholders’
Board and its Committees. In addition, I would like to thank
tangible equity.
Christine Hodgson, former Senior Independent Director and
Analysis Underlying RoTE of 8.0 per cent in 2022 was a 120bps Chair of the Remuneration Committee, for her many insightful
improvement on 6.8 per cent in 2021. contributions and great dedication as well as for agreeing to
remain on the Board until January 2023 to ensure a smooth
The underlying profit attributable to ordinary shareholders expressed as a
percentage of average ordinary shareholders’ tangible equity transition to a new Remuneration Committee Chair.
We also announced that Jasmine Whitbread, Chair of the
Culture and Sustainability Committee, and a long-standing
and much valued board member, would not be seeking
re-election at the 2023 AGM and will retire from the Board
Total shareholder return (TSR) %
at that time.
+43.4
% Looking ahead
We are well positioned to take advantage of considerable
2022 41.4%
growth opportunities in our footprint as we navigate an
2021 (2.0)% uncertain external environment in 2023. Global growth,
while slower, should remain resilient. But, with central banks
2020 (34.6)% focusing on controlling inflation against a backdrop of trade
and geopolitical tensions, significant uncertainties remain.
Aim Deliver a positive return on shareholders’ investment Our markets are some of the world’s most dynamic places,
through share price appreciation and dividends paid. with a growth potential that significantly outstrips more
established economies. Asia is likely to be the fastest-growing
Analysis Our TSR in the full year 2022 was positive
region in the world, and the significant re-opening of the
41.4 per cent, compared with negative 2.0 per cent in 2021.
Chinese economy from COVID-19 restrictions is likely to
Combines simple share price appreciation with dividends paid to show
materially boost demand and growth. This, together with
the total return to the shareholder and is expressed as a percentage total
return to shareholders India and ASEAN’s high rates of economic expansion and
continued dynamism in commodity-exporting countries in
our footprint, gives us plenty of reasons for optimism as we
continue to help customers build growth, prosperity and a
stronger future.
Common Equity Tier 1 ratio %
The Board will continue to ensure an appropriate balance of
opportunity and risk, acting in your interests as shareholders.
-19
bps We are grateful to you for the trust you place in us and for
your ongoing support of the Group. I am confident that we
2022 14.0% will continue to create long-term, sustainable value for all
stakeholders in 2023 and beyond.
2021 14.1%
2020 14.4%
Aim Maintain a strong capital base and Common Equity Tier 1
(CET1) ratio.
Analysis Our CET1 ratio was 14.0 per cent, at the top end of
our 13-14 per cent target range. Dr José Viñals
Group Chairman
The components of the Group’s capital are summarised on page 288
16 February 2023
08 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 11
Strategic
report
The Group delivered a strong performance in 2022, executing future growth. In 2022 we also set out five strategic actions
well against our strategy and the five strategic actions we set that we would take to accelerate delivery of double-digit
out this time last year, whilst continuing to invest for the future. RoTE, including:
2022 income was over $16 billion, our highest since 2014 and up
• Driving improved returns in Corporate, Commercial &
15 per cent, with about half coming from underlying business
Institutional Banking (CCIB)
growth and the remainder from the normalisation in interest
rates. This is particularly impressive given the material • Transforming profitability through productivity in
headwinds in our Wealth Management business. We have Consumer Private & Business Banking (CPBB)
been disciplined with expenses, generating savings which
• Seizing the opportunity in China with the ambition to
allow for continued investment and significantly positive
double onshore and offshore profit before tax
income-to-cost jaws. Loan impairment rose, mainly due to the
challenges of the China commercial real estate sector and • Creating operational leverage and delivering gross cost
sovereign risk. The broader portfolio remains resilient and we savings of $1.3 billion
continue to be vigilant in the face of volatile global markets.
• Delivering over $5 billion of capital returns to our
All this has helped us increase underlying profit before tax
shareholders
for the year to $4.8 billion, an improvement of 15 per cent
year-on-year. We have made good progress across all five areas.
Our strategy is working and delivering improved performance In CCIB we are targeting around a 160 basis point
and returns to shareholders. Return on Tangible Equity (RoTE) improvement in income return on risk weighted assets
at 8 per cent is now above the levels it was before the (IRORWA) to 650 basis points with RWA capped at full year
pandemic. We intend to build on our momentum to approach 2021 levels. We have already delivered on this IRORWA
10 per cent RoTE in 2023, to over 11 per cent in 2024, and improvement target in 2022 and RWA levels are $20 billion
continue to grow thereafter. Our equity generation and below 2021 levels. The recently announced strategic review
discipline on RWA this year has meant our year end Common of our Aviation Finance business will create further capacity
Equity Tier 1 (CET1) ratio is at the top of our target range, for CCIB to grow higher return business.
allowing us to increase our full year ordinary dividend to
In CPBB the team has already achieved gross savings of
18 cents per share, a 50 per cent increase. We have also
$233 million against their 2024 target of $500 million. These
announced a further share buy-back of $1 billion, starting
savings have come from rationalising the branch network,
imminently, which will bring our total shareholder returns
process re-engineering, headcount efficiencies and further
since the start of 2022 to $2.8 billion, well on our way to our
automation. Despite a challenging Wealth Management
2024 target of at least $5 billion.
performance in 2022 the CPBB cost-to-income ratio improved
5 percentage points to 69 per cent and should show further
Good progress on our strategic actions
improvement in 2023.
We are proud to connect the world’s most dynamic markets.
Our Purpose is to drive commerce and prosperity through our China has faced COVID-19 and economic headwinds.
unique diversity and this guides our strategy and everything Despite those difficulties, our onshore China business
we do. The businesses we serve, and with which we connect increased its income by 10 per cent in 2022, and offshore-
and partner, are the engines of trade and innovation, and related income is up 21 per cent. However, impairments on
central to the transition to a fair, sustainable future. China commercial real estate related risk have pushed our
offshore and onshore China operating profit down in 2022.
In support of our Purpose, we continue to focus on three We are confident in the long-term opportunity in China
‘Stands’, areas where we have long-term ambitions for and committed to achieving our 2024 targets for China-
positive business and societal impact – Accelerating Zero, related growth.
Resetting Globalisation and Lifting Participation. These
stands are fully consistent with our strategy, stretching The Group’s positive income-to-cost jaws of 6 per cent in
our thinking, our action and our leadership to accelerate 2022 were driven by strong income growth and discipline on
our growth. expenses. We have delivered about a third of the $1.3 billion
expense save target we set out earlier this year. Inflationary
We set out our strategy in early 2021, built on the four pressures are now evident in many of our footprint markets
pillars of Network, Affluent, Mass Retail and Sustainability. and these expense saves help us manage those pressures,
Two years on, these themes and areas of focus are even more whilst creating capacity to invest. We will now target positive
relevant; our strategy is working, and will continue to drive income-to-cost jaws of around 3 per cent in 2023 and 2024.
Cash investments Network income Number of active Affluent Clients
$2.0 $5.7 2.1
bn bn million
5% 24% 7%
Strategic report Group Chief Executive’s review
Group Chief Executive’s review Optimistic outlook for the markets in
continued our footprint
Looking forward into 2023, whilst there is recession risk in the
US and Europe, ongoing geopolitical issues and the war in
Ukraine, we also see reasons for increased optimism for the
areas of the world in which we operate.
The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic is now finally abating
Further opportunities emerging
in the last few markets in our footprint. China’s new approach
In 2022 we continued to transform and innovate within our
to dealing with COVID-19 will drive economic growth and this
business to drive sustainable growth, including developing our
in turn will help further improve GDP growth in the economies
digital and sustainability capabilities. Our colleagues bring
of Asia.
unrivalled financial expertise to help identify opportunities
across growing markets, sectors and in sustainable finance. This will also act as a catalyst for our Wealth Management
We continue to prove ourselves as a trusted partner, working business which was subdued in 2022. Clients remained on
with start-ups, multinationals, fintechs and governments to the side-lines as market volatility undermined confidence.
create new ideas, technology and innovation. This together with the last remaining pandemic restrictions
led to a year-on-year fall in income. As we go into 2023,
In our Ventures segment, we were delighted to announce
we are optimistic that as these factors recede the Wealth
the launch of our second wholly digital bank, Trust Bank,
Management business can rebound from a difficult year.
in Singapore. Partnering with FairPrice Group, the largest
supermarket chain in Singapore, and building on our Rising interest rates will inevitably feed through further into
successful experience of creating the Mox virtual bank in loan impairment at some stage. However, reflecting the work
Hong Kong, we were able to bring Trust Bank to the market we have done over a number of years to reshape our loan
quickly and efficiently. The early success of Trust Bank, portfolios, there are only relatively small pockets of stress in
onboarding over 450,000 customers so far, or 9 per cent our books. Our loan loss rate remains well below the historic
of the addressable market, has exceeded our most range. Whilst China commercial real estate exposures remain
ambitious expectations. In 2023, Trust Bank will build on a challenge for the banking sector generally, it remains a
this momentum to roll out additional products to better small part of our portfolio, against which we feel appropriately
serve our customers. Together with Mox, we now have fully provided. We remain watchful on sovereign risk where
developed virtual and traditional bank offerings in two of continued USD strength will remain problematic for some of
our most significant markets. our markets though we have the capital strength to navigate
these challenges.
The sustainability agenda continues to gather pace as the
world faces significant climate and environmental challenges, Finally, reflecting our increased optimism, we are lifting our
with the imperative to invest, find solutions and support a just earnings targets. We had said that we will deliver double digit
transition to net zero having never been greater. In 2022 we RoTE in 2024, if not earlier. As we start the new year we think
reshaped our organisation to better address the challenges we will be approaching 10 per cent RoTE in 2023 and have
and opportunities, creating a Chief Sustainability Officer role raised our 2024 RoTE target to be at least 11 per cent and to
as we continue to invest in the capabilities and expertise that continue to grow thereafter.
our business and clients need.
In conclusion
At the 2022 Annual General Meeting, our 2050 Net Zero
The Group has delivered a strong performance in 2022. The
pathway was endorsed by our shareholders, and we are
revenue outlook into 2023 is positive, with our core business
on track to deliver on our plans to reach net zero in our
momentum supported by the tailwind of rising interest rates.
operations by 2025 and in our financed emissions by 2050.
We have made good progress during the year and we have We are optimistic for the markets in our footprint as they
accelerated progress in some areas where more market finally emerge from the challenges brought by the pandemic
data on emissions has become available. and as economic activity rebounds. Our strategy is clear, we
continue to make good progress on our five targeted strategic
We have a deep understanding of how climate change
actions and remain committed to delivering over $5 billion of
affects our footprint markets, clients and communities and we
shareholder returns by 2024.
continue to play a leading role in addressing these challenges.
The estimates of the financing needed to deliver net zero Finally, echoing José, I would like to highlight the remarkable
continues to grow and we mobilised $48 billion of sustainable efforts of our more than 83,000 colleagues. Their deep
finance in the last 21 months as we support our clients on their expertise combined with resilience in some challenging
transition plans. Our ambition is to mobilise $300 billion in circumstances in certain markets has delivered seamless
sustainable finance by 2030 and we have developed a Green service to our customers and communities that we serve,
and Sustainable Product Framework and Transition Finance bringing to life our brand promise to be here for good.
Framework to guide us.
Bill Winters
Group Chief Executive
16 February 2023
12 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Strategic report Market environment
Market environment
Macroeconomic factors affecting the global landscape
Global macro trends
Trends • Global GDP growth slowed sharply in 2022, • The euro-area economy likely grew by 3.5 per
likely to 3.4 per cent, following the 6.0 per cent cent in 2022 following 5.3 per cent growth in
in 2022 expansion in 2021, as inflation soared and central 2021; while the recovery was strong in H1 due to
banks were forced to tighten policy aggressively. COVID-19 reopening effects, H2 was held back
by rising energy costs related to the Russia-
• MENAP was the best-performing region,
Ukraine conflict.
recording growth of 6.2 per cent, supported
by elevated commodity prices; Asia recorded • In most majors, labour markets showed signs of
growth of 4.2 per cent, down from 7.1 per cent in further tightening, despite slowing growth.
2021, primarily driven by the slowdown in China,
• Central banks began to unwind support, at first
with growth falling to 3.0 per cent in 2022 from
gradually and then more rapidly as the year
8.4 per cent in 2021.
progressed and inflationary pressures built.
• Among the majors, despite a technical recession Fiscal support continued in the euro area as
in the first half of the year, the United States governments sought to shield households and
recorded annual growth of 2.1 per cent on the businesses from elevated energy costs, but
back of resilient domestic demand, while the UK provided less of a tailwind in the United States
likely grew by 4.0 per cent. as COVID-19 support measures were unwound.
Outlook • Global growth is expected to weaken to • 2023 will be a tale of two halves, with global
2.5 per cent in 2023, as central banks focus growth likely to pick up in H2 2023 as the
for 2023 on bringing inflation back under control. United States and euro area recover from
mild recessions, and a reopening of the China
• Asia will likely be the fastest-growing region and
economy from COVID-19 restrictions helps boost
will continue to drive global growth, expanding
demand and growth.
by 5.3 per cent. Among the majors, the United
States is expected to witness a mild contraction • Tight global liquidity conditions are likely to make
of 0.2 per cent in 2023, the UK a larger contraction it difficult for some emerging markets to access
of 0.5 per cent, while the euro area is likely to see international financing, forcing them to seek
an overall modest expansion of 0.4 per cent. multilateral support.
• Downside risks to this outlook include sustained
inflationary pressures, COVID-19 mutations
following China’s quick reopening, and another
flare-up of geopolitical tensions, including the
Russia-Ukraine war.
Medium- Stagflation risks Broader global trends
• Tight labour markets and the broadening of • The world economy could see a permanent loss
and long- inflationary pressures to the services sector of economic output or ‘scarring’ due to the
are likely to keep stagflation a key concern for recession that followed the pandemic. This would
term view
central banks over the coming quarters. make it harder for emerging markets to catch up
with developed markets.
• The need to meet ESG targets could also prove
inflationary in the medium term as the cost of • Long-term growth in the developed world is
using fossil fuels during the transition period rises constrained by ageing populations and high
due to a combination of taxes, carbon pricing levels of debt, exacerbated by the policy
and external tariffs. response to COVID-19.
• As companies aim to reduce concentration • Rising nationalism, anti-globalisation and
risks and move towards onshore/nearshore protectionism are threats to long-term growth
production, the risk is a lowering of efficiency prospects in emerging markets.
gains that might push up consumer prices.
• However, there are potential offsets. Higher
• However, easing of supply-chain bottlenecks is capex to meet sustainability targets, and moves
likely to help dampen some of these pressures. towards digitalisation could boost productivity
growth, proving an antidote to economic scarring
• Fiscal policy might also turn from a tailwind to
concerns. Within emerging markets, countries
a headwind for growth. High public debt and
in Asia are best placed to take advantage of
government deficits also mean that most
digitalisation.
economies are looking to tighten fiscal policy
over the medium term. • Relatively younger populations, as well as the
adoption of digital technology, will allow
emerging markets to become increasingly
important to global growth.
14 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 19
Strategic
report
How we are shaping our future
What makes us different We remain committed
Our purpose is to drive commerce and prosperity through to executing against
our unique diversity – this is underpinned by our brand our strategy to
promise, here for good. Our Stands – aimed at tackling
accelerate returns1
some of the world’s biggest issues – Accelerating Zero,
Lifting Participation and Resetting Globalisation (see We are committing resources to grow our
page 24 for more), challenge us to use our unique position franchise in large and high-returns markets,
and accelerate progress in markets being
articulated below.
optimised. We continue to review our
business models to drive performance.
Client focus
In 2022, we refocused our resources in the
Our clients are our business.
Africa and Middle East (AME) region into
We build long-term relationships
existing and new markets with the greatest
through trusted advice, expertise
scale and growth potential, provided further
and best-in-class capabilities.
clarity on how we are planning to achieve
net zero in financed emissions by 2050, and
successfully launched Trust, a digital bank
in Singapore.
In addition, in April 2022, we expanded
our reporting structure with the creation
of Ventures. The increased reporting
Distinct proposition
transparency for Ventures reflects the
Our understanding of our markets growing significance of the Group’s
and our extensive international investment in technology and innovation.
network allow us to offer a
We are on-track and now expect to deliver
tailored proposition to our clients,
a return on tangible equity (RoTE) of over
combining global expertise and
11 per cent by 2024, from:
local knowledge.
• focusing on driving improved returns in
CCIB to reach 6.5% Income RoRWA by
2024 (2022: 6.5%)
• transforming profitability in CPBB to
Robust risk improve cost-to-income ratio to ~60%
by 2024 (2022: 69%)
management
• seizing opportunities in China to double
We are here for the long term. China onshore and offshore profit
Effective risk management before tax (2022: $0.5bn, -35% decline
allows us to grow a sustainable year-on-year)
business.
• improving efficiency through creating
operational leverage to improve group
cost-to-income ratio to ~60% by 2024
(2022: 65%) and to deliver gross expense
savings of $1.3bn by 2024 (2022: $0.4bn)
• delivering sustainable shareholder
Sustainable and
distributions in excess of $5bn from
responsible business 2022 – 2024 (2022: $2.8bn).
We are committed to sustainable Over the medium term, we will continue
social and economic development to relentlessly transform and innovate
across our business, operations to become a leading cross-border bank
and communities. that supports a sustainable future.
1 Reconciliations from underlying to statutory and
definitions of alternative performance measures
(APMs) can be found on pages 126 to 131.
Strategic report Business model
Business model
continued
The sources of value we rely on
We aim to use our resources in a sustainable way, How we are enhancing our resources
to achieve the goals of our strategy
Human capital • We continue to create a work environment that
supports resilience, innovation and inclusion, with an
Diversity differentiates us. Delivering ongoing focus on mental, physical, social and financial
our Purpose rests on how we continue wellbeing. This includes further rolling out hybrid
to invest in our people, the employee working across our markets.
experience we further enhance and • More than 32,000 colleagues have undertaken learning
the culture we strengthen. in 2022 to build the future skills that we need – including
analytics, data, digital, cyber security, sustainable
finance and leadership.
Strong brand Consumer1 client • In 2022, we continued to embed our refreshed brand
satisfaction metric identity across client and employee touchpoints. We
We are a leading international also introduced a sonic identity to bring to life the sound
banking group with more than of Standard Chartered in interactive digital interfaces.
48.1
160 years of history. In many of our
% • We have been successful in leveraging our brand and
markets we are a household name. insights to support business growth. The Group
successfully improved its reputation in 2022, exceeding
2021: 43.1%
the average score for the banking sector, and ranking
top three in the majority of our key markets over 2022.
• We continue to invest in transforming our core business
International network
into a leading digital-first and data-driven platform,
We have an unparalleled positioning us to deliver superior client experiences,
international network, connecting access new high-growth segments, grow wallet
with existing clients and create new business
companies, institutions and
model opportunities.
individuals to, and in, some of the
world’s fastest-growing and most • Our network remains one of our key competitive
advantages and we continue to leverage our
dynamic regions.
network to drive growth in Transaction Banking
and Financial Markets solutions for our clients.
• In Business Banking, we continue to support the growth
Local expertise of SMEs across our footprint by meeting their trade
and working capital, supply chain financing, cash
We have a deep knowledge of our
management and investment needs. We granted
markets and an understanding
over $3 billion in new loans to SMEs in 2022.
of the drivers of the economy,
• We launched new digital partnerships in China, India
offering us insights that help our
and Vietnam to offer a superior banking experience to
clients achieve their ambitions.
small businesses, offering innovative digital solutions to
meet their evolving needs in the trade and e-commerce
ecosystems.
• Stronger capital and a much more resilient balance
Financial strength CET1 capital
sheet with growth in high-quality deposits.
With $820 billion in assets on our • CET1 ratio at 14 per cent, at the top of our target range
balance sheet, we are a strong, $34 of 13 – 14 per cent.
bn
trusted partner for our clients.
• We are leveraging partnerships to create market-
leading digital platforms including Digital Banks and
Banking as a Service, utilising next-generation
technologies to service our clients.
Technology
• We continue to invest in our engineering capabilities,
We possess strong digital providing best-in-class tools, growing our engineering
foundations and leading talent, and creating an automated and scalable
technological capabilities to enable technology stack capable of continuously delivering
value to our clients.
a data-driven digital bank which
delivers world class client service • We are accelerating the simplification and
harmonisation of our technology estate to reinforce
strong digital foundations, integrate platforms using
the cloud where appropriate, to provide consistent,
secure, and resilient technology.
1 Excludes CCIB, and Business Banking clients.
1 EInxccluluddeess P CriCvIaBt, ep Briavantkein bga. nRke satnadte bdu fsoinr e2s0s2 b1.anking clients
20 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 21
Strategic
report
Read more on stakeholder
engagement on pages 55 to 63
The value we create
We aim to create long-term value for a broad range of stakeholders in a sustainable way
Clients Suppliers
We want to deliver simple, everyday banking We engage diverse suppliers, locally and globally,
solutions to provide our clients with a great digital to provide efficient and sustainable goods and
client experience. We enable individuals to grow services for our business.
and protect their wealth; we help businesses trade,
transact, invest and expand. We also help a variety of
financial institutions, including banks, public sector and
development organisations, with their banking needs.
Total active Total CCIB and Business
individual clients1 Banking clients Total spent in 2022 Active suppliers
10.5m 235,000 $4.3 11,700
bn
2021: 9.9m 2021: 234,000 2021: $4.1bn 2021: 12,100
Employees Regulators and governments
We believe great employee experience drives great We engage with public authorities to play our part in
client experience. We want all our people to pursue their supporting the effective functioning of the financial
ambitions, deliver with purpose and have a rewarding system and the broader economy.
career enabled by great people leaders.
Senior appointments Employees committed
which are internal to our success Taxes paid in 2022
67 96 $821
% % m
2021: 69% 2021: 96% 2021: $1.2bn
Society Investors
We strive to operate as a sustainable and responsible We aim to deliver robust returns and long-term
company, working with local partners to promote social sustainable value for our investors.
and economic development.
Community investment Dividends declared in 2022 Share buy-backs in 2022
$51.2 $523 $1.3
m m bn
2021: $48.7m 2021: $370m 2021: $504m
1 2021 restated due to a change in the definition of active partnership clients.
Strategic report Strategy
Our strategy Over the past year, we have executed against our strategy.
While there are adjacent areas we will continue focusing on,
such as managing down low-returning risk-weighted assets
(RWA) in Corporate, Commercial and Institutional Banking
To become a leader (CCIB), and accelerating cost-savings across Consumer,
Private and Business Banking (CPBB), we still believe our
strategy is the right one. We have made good progress in
in global finance the year and are on track to deliver our objectives.
We remain committed to achieve our ambitions by 2025:
• To be the number one Network digital banking platform
We will continue to increase focus on: • To be among the top three Affluent brands
• Four strategic priorities: Network business, Affluent client • To double our Mass presence
business, Mass Retail business, and Sustainability
• To become a market leader in Sustainability
• Three critical enablers: People and Culture, Ways of
Going forward, our strategic priorities and enablers will
Working, and Innovation
continue to be supported by our three Stands: Accelerating
Zero, Lifting Participation and Resetting Globalisation.
More details on our Stands can be found on page 24.
Critical enablers
People Ways of Working Innovation
and Culture
We are continuing to invest in our We continue to be client-centric, to We have a three-pronged
people to build future-ready skills, improve our operating rhythm innovation approach to transform
provide them with a differentiated in organisational agility and to the Bank, to achieve our goal
experience and strengthen our empower our people to continuously of 50 per cent income from new
inclusive and innovative culture. improve the way we work. businesses.
This includes: We are working on identifying • Transform our core via digitisation
• Embedding our refreshed ways to track derived value and • Leverage partnerships to drive
approach to performance, reward enhance our speed of decision- scale and extended reach
and recognition, that puts greater making and delivery, as a key
focus on ambition, collaboration, source of competitive advantage. • Build new business models to
create value
and innovation
We have established Ventures
• Increasing re-skilling and upskilling
as a separate operating segment.
opportunities towards future roles
During 2022, we launched six new
that are aligned with the business
ventures and serviced more than
strategy and individuals’
1.8 million customers through our
aspirations
venture portfolio .
• Expanding hybrid working across
our footprint, with 78 per cent of
colleagues across 43 markets on
flexi working arrangements
• Focusing on wellbeing to enhance
individual resilience, productivity,
and performance
• Strengthening leadership
capability through a modernised
development offering
Average time taken from Percentage of revenue
Culture of inclusion score approval to technology go-live1 from new businesses3
83.07 % 6.2 22 %
2021: 80.65% weeks 2021: 7.6 weeks 2021: 13%
Women in senior roles Consumer client satisfaction metric2
32.1 48.1
% %
2021: 30.7% 2021: 43.1%
1 2022 figure includes measurement from Functions operations and cannot be directly compared to 2021 figure
2 Excludes CCIB, and Business Banking clients. Includes Private Banking. Restated for 2021.
3 Income from digital initiatives, innovation and transformation of the core, the majority of which will come from new and upgraded platforms and partnerships.
Also includes Sustainable Finance income and 100% of Ventures income. 2021 figure has been restated.
22 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 23
Strategic
report
Strategic priorities
Network business Affluent client business
Through our unique network, we facilitate investment, trade and We offer outstanding personalised advice and exceptional
capital flows, with an increasing focus on Sustainable Finance. experiences for our Private, Priority and Premium Banking clients
to help them grow and prosper internationally and at home.
We are one of the leading international network banks
Our deep-rooted network, trusted brand and long-standing
in our emerging markets footprint through:
commitment with clients in our markets are key sources of
• Taking leading positions in high-returning, high-growth competitive advantage.
sectors
As a leading international wealth manager, we focus on:
• Delivering a market-leading digital platform by continuing
to invest in core digital capabilities • Unlocking the value of our strong affluent client portfolio
across Asia, Africa and the Middle East, with suitable client
• Speeding up growth in large markets while expanding in propositions, coverage models and advisory capabilities
growing markets and corridors e.g., intra-Asia and East–West
• Maximising the reach of our deep-rooted international
network, with Hong Kong, Singapore, UAE and Jersey as our
wealth advisory hubs
• Delivering personalised and digital-first wealth solutions to our
clients anchored in investment thought leadership, an open
architecture approach and supported by scalable platforms
Percentage of CCIB
transactions digitally
CCIB network income initiated1 Affluent client income Affluent active clients
$5.7 61 $3.8 2.1m
bn % bn
2021: $4.6bn 2021: 55% 2021: $3.6bn 2021: 2.1m
Mass Retail business Sustainability
We deliver banking solutions to help our clients prosper by In Sustainability, in line with our stands, we continue to focus
integrating our digital services into our clients’ everyday lives. on sustainable and transition finance, achieving net zero carbon
emissions for our operations, supply chains and financing.
New digital solutions, strategic partnerships and advanced
We provide access to finance, networks and training to
analytics are instrumental to our business, enabling us to
young people, and support companies in improving their
significantly increase our relevance and reach, serve our clients
environmental, social and governance standards, ratings,
in a meaningful way and lift participation in the communities we
and net zero trajectories.
serve. We are:
We aim to promote social and economic development, and
• Making significant progress in rebuilding foundations for a
deliver sustainable outcomes in support of the UN Sustainable
profitable Mass Retail business
Development Goals. We are:
• Continuing to transform to a digital-first model, deepening
our capabilities in digital sales and marketing as well as data • Leveraging climate risk management to support clients in
and analytics managing climate risk and identifying transition opportunities,
e.g., mobilising green and sustainable finance
• Becoming the partner of choice to leading global and regional
companies and scaling thoughtfully with our partners • Integrating Sustainable Finance as a core component of our
customer value proposition and delivering product solutions
• Continuing to promote economic inclusion in our footprint
through Futuremakers by Standard Chartered
• Targeting net zero carbon emissions in our operations by 2025,
and in our supply chain and financed emissions by 2050, with
interim 2030 targets for our highest-emitting sectors
Mass market Percentage of digital Sustainability Aspirations
active clients2 sales for Retail Products3 achieved or on track
8.4m 48 85.7%
%
2021: 7.6m 2021: 41% 2021: 82.9%
1 Includes measurement across all countries and products. 2021 restated.
2 2021 restated due to a change in the definition of active partnership clients.
3 Calculation methodology has been amended to exclude Mass Retail digital partnerships and the markets that were announced for exit in 2022. 2021 figure has
been restated.
Strategic report Our Stands
Our Stands Accelerating
Zero
The impact of climate change, stark We’re helping emerging markets in our footprint reduce
carbon emissions without slowing critical local development.
inequality and the unfair aspects of
This is just one of the ways we’re playing our part in putting
globalisation impact us all. We’re the world on a sustainable path to net zero by 2050.
The need for a just transition to an inclusive, net zero
taking a stand by setting long-term
economy brings with it a huge opportunity for innovation and
ambitions on these issues where growth for our clients and our Bank. Our plan to achieve net
zero has three aims: reduce emissions, catalyse sustainable
they matter most. This works in
finance and partnerships, and accelerate new solutions.
unison with our strategy, stretching We aim to reduce the emissions associated with our
financing activities to net zero by 2050, with 2030
our thinking, our action and our
interim targets in our most carbon-intensive sectors.
leadership to accelerate our growth.
Case study In 2022, we were part of a
consortium of banks which
Supporting created a EUR350 million
green trade facility for
the rollout of
Polestar, an electric
electric vehicles performance car maker.
in Sweden
See pages 326 and 327
Lifting Resetting
Participation Globalisation
Inequality, along with gaps in economic inclusion, mean Our goal is to help companies improve working and
that many young people, women and small businesses environmental standards and give everyone the chance
struggle to gain access to the financial system to save to participate in the world economy, so growth becomes
for their futures and grow their businesses. We want to fairer and more balanced. We stand for a new model of
democratise access to finance and make it easily accessible globalisation based on transparency, inclusion and dialogue.
at low cost.
Globalisation has lifted millions out of poverty, but too many
We strive to expand the reach and scale of financial people have been left behind. We advocate a new, more
services – expanding accessible banking and connecting inclusive model of globalisation based on transparency
clients to opportunities that promote access to finance and fairness. We aim to increase transparency across
and economic inclusion. supply chains to enable consumer choice and drive
responsible trade. In addition, we want to make global
trade more equitable by improving access to finance for
smaller suppliers that often lack adequate financing.
Case study Throughout 2022, thousands Case study In October, we launched
of women were able to grow Trade Track-It, a digital
Helping their businesses by using our Real-time trade transaction tracking portal
collateral-free subsidised which gives our clients
female transaction
loans product for female end-to-end visibility of
entrepreneurs micro-entrepreneurs. status with their trade-transaction
status globally.
thrive Trade Track-It
See page 9 See pages 232 and 233
2244 SSttaannddaarrdd CChhaarrtteerreedd –– AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22002222
Strategic report Client segment reviews
Segment overview
Corporate, Corporate, Commercial and Institutional Banking (CCIB)
supports local and large corporations, governments, banks
and investors with their transaction banking, financial
Commercial and markets and borrowing needs. We provide solutions to more
than 20,000 clients in some of the world’s fastest-growing
Institutional Banking economies and most active trade corridors. Our clients
operate or invest across 50 markets across the globe.
Our strong and deep local presence enables us to help
KPIs co-create bespoke financing solutions and connect our
clients multilaterally to investors, suppliers, buyers and sellers.
Profit before taxation Our products and services enable our clients to move capital,
manage risk and invest to create wealth. Our clients represent
$4,100 m $4,050 m
a large and important part of the economies we serve. CCIB
is at the heart of the Group’s Purpose to drive commerce and
31% 35% prosperity through our unique diversity.
underlying basis statutory basis
We are also committed to sustainable finance in our markets
Return on tangible equity (RoTE)3
and to channelling capital where the impact will be greatest.
13.7 13.6 We are delivering on our ambition to support sustainable
% % economic growth, increasing support and funding for financial
410bps 430bps offerings that have a positive impact on our communities and
underlying basis statutory basis environment.
Risk-weighted assets (RWA) Strategic priorities
• Deliver sustainable growth for clients by leveraging our network
$144bn to facilitate trade, capital and investment flows across our
$20bn footprint markets.
• Generate high-quality returns by improving funding quality and
income mix, growing capital-lite1 income and driving balance sheet
Improving CCIB Income RoRWA velocity while maintaining disciplined risk management.
• Be the leading digital banking platform, providing integrated
2022 6.5 % solutions to cater to our clients’ needs and enhance client
experience, and partnering with third parties to expand capabilities
20214 4.9 % and access new clients.
20204 4.9 % • Accelerate our sustainable finance offering to our clients
through product innovation and enabling the transition to
Aim: Achieve RoRWA of 6.5% by 2024. a low-carbon future.
Analysis: CCIB income RoRWA improved to 6.5% in 2022, up 160bps Progress
YoY and in line with our 2024 target, driven by higher income and
• Our underlying income is driven by our diversified product suite
disciplined risk management.
and expanded client solutions is supported by the rising interest
rate environment. Our network income currently contributes to
57 per cent of total CCIB income with growth across strategic
Contribution of Financial Institutions segment
network corridors.
2022 45 % • Improved balance sheet quality with investment-grade net
exposures represent 70 per cent of total corporate net exposures
2021 41 % (2021: 64 per cent) and high-quality operating account balances at
67 per cent of Transaction Banking and Securities Services customer
2020 42 % balances (2021: 63 per cent).
Aim: Drive growth in high-returning Financial Institutions segment. • Migrated more than 73,000 client entities to our S2B2 NextGen
platform and increased S2B cash payment transaction volumes
Analysis: Share of Financial Institutions income improved to 45 per
by 10.3 per cent.
cent of total CCIB client income in 2022 as we allocate more capital
to this segment to drive income and returns. • We are half of the way towards developing our $1 billion income
from sustainable finance franchise.
Performance highlights
P[[ artnering with SAP
• Underlying profit before tax of $4,100 million, up 31 per cent,
primarily driven by higher income, partially offset by higher
Taulia for sustainable expenses and credit impairment charges.
• Underlying operating income of $10,045 million, up 19 per cent,
with Cash Management in Transaction Banking benefiting
supply chains ]]
from rising interest rates and strong Macro Trading activity in
Financial Markets.
• Risk-weighted assets down $20 billion since 31 December 2021,
In October, we signed a framework agreement to
mainly as a result of optimisation initiatives and favourable
collaborate with SAP Taulia, a market leader in working
currency movement, partly offset by business growth and
capital solutions. As part of the agreement, we will work
regulatory impact.
with Taulia to provide clients access to supply chain finance
• Underlying RoTE increased from 9.6 per cent to 13.7 per cent.
through our unique emerging-markets network. This will
help our clients to make their supply chains more resilient
and sustainable by enabling their suppliers to gain access 1 Capital-lite income refers to products with low RWA consumption or of a
non-funded nature. This mainly includes Cash Management and FX products
to working capital more efficiently and cost effectively.
2 Our next-generation Client digital transaction initiation platform.
This is the first agreement that Taulia has signed with 3 Reconciliations from underlying to statutory and definitions of alternative.
a banking institution, following its acquisition by SAP. performance measures (APM) can be found on pages 80-85
4 FY 2020 and FY 2021 Income is adjusted for aviation depreciation for Income
RoRWA calculation
26 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Strategic report Regional reviews
Africa and the Loans and advances
to customers (% of group)
Middle East
7
%
Profit before taxation Risk-weighted assets (RWA)
$819 $41 Income split by key markets
m bn
UAE 24 %
4% $8bn
underlying basis
Pakistan 12 %
$790
m
Kenya 10 %
5% Others 54 %
statutory basis
Region overview Progress
We have a deep-rooted heritage in Africa and Middle East • We have strengthened our footprint with the approval for a
banking licence in Egypt.
(AME), of which the United Arab Emirates, Pakistan, Kenya,
Nigeria, South Africa, and Ghana are the largest by income. • We have once again led the AME bond and Sukuk markets in 2022,
taking the top spot in the AME league tables and ranking #1 in
A rich history, deep client relationships and a unique footprint MENA G3 issuance for the fifth year in a row. Our commitment to
in the region, as well as across centres in Asia, Europe, and ESG across Debt Capital Markets (DCM) helped us almost double
the Americas, enable us to seamlessly support our clients. our issuance ESG volumes and brought the year’s most innovative
deals to market.
AME is an important element of global trade and investment
corridors and we are well placed to facilitate these flows. • On Sustainable Finance we have brought new ideas to the
market, and supported our clients with closing market firsts and
Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) markets are expected to landmark transactions that are creating a strong reputation for
outpace global growth on the back of oil price recovery, us among clients.
higher government spend and bilateral trade negotiations.
• We have successfully launched end-to-end digital onboarding in
The macro-economic risk remains elevated in Pakistan and Pakistan with embedded eKYC (Electronic Know Your Customer),
some markets in Africa due to a high level of sovereign debt allowing clients to seamlessly open accounts from the SC Mobile
and FX liquidity challenges. Overall, AME’s medium and App. We have also expanded our agent banking proposition
long-term attractiveness remains compelling and intact, to five countries, helping to drive financial inclusion by offering
multiple touchpoints for clients to transact.
and it is an important part of our global network proposition
for our clients. • We have expanded digital wealth management solutions in Kenya
and UAE. Our micro-investment solution in Kenya has attracted
Strategic priorities 85 per cent new to wealth clients, while in UAE, clients have access
• Provide best-in-class structuring and financing solutions and drive to online Trade FX and online Equities.
creation through client initiatives.
• Broad-based growth in income across products, with Financial
• Invest to accelerate growth in differentiated international network Markets at the highest level since 2015.
and Affluent Client businesses.
• Continuing cost discipline has allowed investments to continue
• Invest in market-leading digitisation initiatives in CPBB to through the cycle. Cost to Income Ratio lower at 64 per cent
protect and grow market share in core markets, continue with (vs. 66 per cent in ‘21) and Revenue / Headcount has grown
our transformation agenda to recalibrate our network and 11 percent vs FY’21.
streamline structures.
Performance highlights
• Be an industry leader in the transition to net zero across the region. • Underlying working profit of $937 million (up 25 per cent on
constant currency basis) was driven by higher income and
• Refocusing and simplifying our presence in AME.
disciplined cost management. Underlying profit before tax of
$819 million (up 4 per cent on constant currency basis) despite
higher loan impairment that is primarily related to provisions
for sovereign downgrades in Ghana & Pakistan.
• Underlying operating income of $2,606 million was up 7 per cent
C[[ elebrating our launch (up 14 per cent constant currency) driven by growth in Transaction
Banking, Financial Markets and Retail. Income was up 9 per cent
(up 15 per cent constant currency) in Middle East, North Africa, &
in Egypt]]
Pakistan and up 3 per cent (up 13 per cent constant currency)
in Africa.
• Risk-weighted assets (RWA) were 17 per cent lower than
In 2022, we received official approval from the Central December 2021, despite the impact of sovereign downgrades,
Bank of Egypt in for our first branch in the market. due to continuing RWA optimisation activities and de-risking
in markets with elevated macro-economic risk.
The branch, designated to be officially launched in 2023,
will be part of a fully-fledged banking operation in Egypt • Loans and advances to customers were down 14 per cent
replacing our current representative office set-up. (9 per cent down on constant currency basis) and customer
accounts were down 8 per cent (3 per cent down on constant
currency basis) since 31 December 2021.
30 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 31
Strategic
report
Europe and Loans and advances
to customers (% of group)
the Americas
17
%
Profit before taxation Risk-weighted assets (RWA)
$863 $50 Income split by key markets
m bn
US 44 %
34%
underlying basis
UK 43 %
$840
m
Others 13 %
46%
statutory basis
Region overview Strategic priorities
The Group supports clients in the region through hubs in • Leverage our network capabilities to connect new and existing
Corporate and Financial Institutions clients in the west to the
London, Frankfurt and New York, as well as a presence in
fastest-growing and highest-potential economies across
several other markets in Europe and Americas. Our expertise
our footprint.
in Asia, Africa and the Middle East allows us to offer our clients
• Supercharge our Financial Institutions (FI) Franchise.
in the region unique network and product capabilities.
• Grow the business we capture from inbound trade flows from our
The region generates significant income for the Group’s east to west corridors.
Corporate, Commercial and Institutional Banking business. • Further develop our sustainable finance product offering and risk
Clients based in Europe and Americas make up around management capabilities.
one-third of the Group’s CCIB income, with three-quarters • Enhance capital efficiency, maintain strong risk oversight, and
of client income booked in the network generating above- further improve the quality of our funding base.
average returns. • Expand assets under management in CPBB and continue to
strengthen the franchise.
In addition to being a key origination centre for CCIB, the
region offers local, on-the-ground expertise and solutions to Progress
• Strong growth of 20 per cent in global cross-border network
help internationally minded clients grow across Europe and
business with Europe & Americas CCIB clients across key footprint
Americas. The region is home to the Group’s two biggest
markets.
payment clearing centres and the largest trading floor with
• FI segment growth of 25 per cent, now accounting for 56 per cent of
more than 90 per cent of the region’s income originating
the CCIB business for European & Americas clients.
from Financial Markets and Transaction Banking products.
• Expanded Financial Markets Product offering in our German
Our European CPBB business focuses on serving clients with subsidiary to enable more inbound trade flow.
links to our footprint markets. • Material growth in income from sustainable finance products and
expansion of our sustainable product offering.
• Significant increase in high-quality liabilities diversifying the region’s
funding base.
• CPBB cost saving initiatives executed, with strong progress made
L[[ aunching our first
in refocusing the Private Banking segment towards Ultra High Net
Worth clients together with the successful migration of CPBB clients
Green Trade Export from London to the Jersey booking centre.
Performance highlights
Letter of Credit • Underlying profit before tax of $863 million improved 34 per cent,
driven by higher income and lower impairments. Positive income to
cost jaws of 12 per cent.
programme]]
• Underlying operating income of $2,353 million was up 17 per cent
due to a strong performance from Financial Markets Macro
products, and improvement in cash deposit volumes and margins
across CCIB and CPBB.
In August, we launched our first Green Trade Export Letter
• Expenses increased by 5 per cent or 9 per cent on a constant
of Credit programme in Singapore, New York and London,
currency basis largely due to the increased Investment spend
working with food and nutrition company ADM (Archer-
and performance-related pay.
Daniels-Midland).
The $500 million letter of credit programme will cover
ADM’s shipment of commodities, including soybeans,
oilseeds and cotton from Latin America, the US, and
Australia to European markets. Issued under the
‘Sustainable Goods’ pillar of the Bank’s Green and
Sustainable Product Framework, the transaction helps
advance ADM’s widening efforts to expand sustainable
farming practices and source sustainably produced goods.
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 41
Strategic
report
[[Founding signatory of
the Sustainable STEEL
Principles]]
In September, we became one of the founding signatories to the
Sustainable STEEL Principles, the first climate-aligned finance
agreement for the steel industry.
The use of metallurgical coal in the manufacturing of steel,
means it contributes around 7 per cent of CO emissions globally.
2
With demand for steel continuing to increase, it’s critical that we
support the sector’s decarbonisation. As part of the agreement,
signatories measure and disclose their steel-related loan
emissions, with a view to achieving net-zero emissions in the
steel industry.
Read more online at sc.com/steel
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 41
Strategic
report
Strategic report Risk overview
Continuous enhancement of our information and cyber Managing our environmental, social and governance (ESG)
security (ICS) capabilities and governance: We have risk: We continue to advance risk management across the
refreshed the Group ICS Risk Strategy by updating our ICS organisation in both our CCIB and CPBB client segments with
Target Operating Model to increase focus on accountability, end-to-end reviews of inherent risks and controls in line with
risk ownership, change management and executive our internal Environmental and Social Risk Catalogue. In
empowerment. Our Board is regularly engaged on our keeping with our sustainable and transition finance goals,
approach to managing ICS Risks and we have appointed our risk management approach seeks to ensure that our
an ICS Risk Special Advisor to the Board. We also perform Green, Sustainable and Transition Finance labels reflect the
table-top cyber crisis testing exercises to ensure a consistent standards set out in our Green and Sustainable Product
view on how to respond to cyber incidents. Framework, Transition Finance Framework and Task Force
on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).
To assess the security of our ICS systems and processes, our
ICS capabilities include a formal process for internal controls Managing Financial Crime Risk: The Group is managing its
testing, vulnerability assessments and penetration testing financial crime risk within acceptable levels as assessed under
(an authorised simulated attack on a computer system, the Group’s risk assessment measures, including the Financial
performed to evaluate the security of the system). We Crime Risk Type Framework, Risk and Control Self-Assessments
continue to deploy the Threat Scenario-led Risk Assessment and assurance reviews. However, some issues in 2022 have
which enables a more dynamic threat-led identification and required remedial actions in order to avoid an unacceptable
management of ICS Risk by our businesses. Our ICS policies increase in Financial Crime Risk in certain areas. Russia-related
and standards are also aligned to a number of best practice sanctions have continued to escalate and are increasingly
global guidance, and we remain watchful on proposed complex in nature to operationalise. While the Group has
new guidance. limited direct exposure to Russia-related sanctions, we
continue to monitor and respond to changing sanction
Our ICS training programme includes annual mandatory
requirements. The Group continues to build and maintain
learning and phishing readiness exercises, along with ongoing
partnerships with industry, government and the third sector
thematic campaigns which highlight the most prevalent
to build consensus on effective efforts to combat financial
threats and risks that colleagues face. We also deliver regular
crime and the damages it causes.
Group Board training on ICS risks. In addition to general ICS
awareness, colleagues in roles identified as critical have More information about the Group’s commitment to fighting
financial crime can be found at sc.com/fightingfinancialcrime
additional training linked to their responsibilities.
Managing Climate Risk: Managing the risks from climate Technology and Innovation: Our technology capabilities are
change is a core element of our strategy and Stands. We have delivering our strategy of being a digital driven second-line of
made good progress this year in embedding Climate Risk defence function, supporting first-line driven risk management
considerations across the impacted Principal Risk Types. By processes. We have expanded our Climate Risk reporting
using the results from our scenario analysis, we are building capabilities and integrated ESG factors to help streamline risk
a good understanding of the markets and industries where assessment across the client lifecycle. We have automated
the effects of climate change will have the greatest impact. the model development lifecycle with a digitised model
Climate Risk assessments are now considered as part of inventory and approval workflow, and have deployed a single
Reputational and Sustainability transaction reviews for platform to support standardised model creation, review and
impacted clients in high-carbon sectors, and integrated into validation. We have continued to expand our Enterprise
the credit application process for approximately 70 per cent Governance, Risk and Compliance with automated workflows
of our corporate client exposure and the physical risk in Operational Risk, Business Continuity, Assurance, and BCBS
identification of our CPBB mortgage portfolios in our largest 239 assessments and peer reviews. Policy documentation
markets. As part of our ongoing academic partnership with management has been transitioned to a new platform and
Imperial College London, we supported new climate research a significantly improved user experience. The Group Risk
on the range of opportunities that exist for private investors in assessment process has been transitioned to a Big Data
nature related investments and cross-sectoral implications of technology stack that utilises data more effectively and
electrification of transport in India. Key focus areas for 2023 improves assessment turnaround time. We continue to build
include establishing and clarifying the linkages between more intelligence into our self-service and case management
net-zero portfolio management across high transition risk tooling. The ASK Compliance platform serves as a single
sectors and the impact thereof on Credit Risk parameters, portal, where the first line of defence and our employees get
building and embedding our in-house Climate Risk models, answers to simple compliance queries using self-service
training and education, and working with our data providers tools, with an enhanced user experience launched in 2022.
and clients. All of these support the Group’s commitments We will prioritise integrating relevant risk use cases into the
made as part of Accelerating Zero. existing self-service tools in 2023. Advisor Connect which is
a configurable case management framework launched in
More details can be found at
sc.com/sustainability and sc.com/tcfd Q3 2022 provides an auditable, consolidated view of cases
and serves as a knowledge repository for the advisory teams.
Further details on our overall approach to net zero Advisor Connect is planned to be rolled out to prioritised
can be found at sc.com/netzero
group and country CFCC teams in 2023.
44 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 47
Strategic
report
An update on our risk management approach
Our ERMF outlines how we manage risk across the Group, as well as at branch and subsidiary level1. It gives us the structure to
manage existing risks effectively in line with our Risk Appetite, as well as allowing for holistic risk identification.
Principal and Integrated Risk Types
Principal risks are risks inherent in our strategy and business model. These are formally defined in our ERMF which provides
a structure for monitoring and controlling these risks through the Board-approved Risk Appetite. We will not compromise
adherence to our Risk Appetite in order to pursue revenue growth or higher returns. The table below provides an overview of
the Group’s principal and integrated risks and risk appetite statement. In addition to principal risks, the Group has defined a
Risk Appetite Statement for Climate Risk.
Principal Risk Types Risk Appetite Statement
Credit Risk The Group manages its credit exposures following the principle of diversification across
products, geographies, client segments and industry sectors.
Traded Risk The Group should control its financial markets activities to ensure that Traded Risk losses do not
cause material damage to the Group’s franchise.
Treasury Risk The Group should maintain sufficient capital, liquidity and funding to support its operations,
and an interest rate profile ensuring that the reductions in earnings or value from movements
in interest rates impacting banking book items do not cause material damage to the Group’s
franchise. In addition, the Group should ensure its Pension plans are adequately funded.
Operational and Technology Risk The Group aims to control Operational and Technology Risks to ensure that operational losses
(financial or reputational), including any related to conduct of business matters, do not cause
material damage to the Group’s franchise.
Information and Cyber Security The Group has zero appetite for very high ICS residual risks and low appetite for high ICS residual
(ICS) Risk risks which result in loss of services, data or funds. The Group will implement an effective ICS
control environment and proactively identify and respond to emerging ICS threats in order to
limit ICS incidents impacting the Group’s franchise.
Compliance Risk The Group has no appetite for breaches in laws and regulations related to regulatory non-
compliance; recognising that while incidents are unwanted, they cannot be entirely avoided.
Financial Crime Risk The Group has no appetite for breaches in laws and regulations related to financial crime,
recognising that while incidents are unwanted, they cannot be entirely avoided.
Model Risk The Group has no appetite for material adverse implications arising from misuse of models or
errors in the development or implementation of models, while accepting model uncertainty.
Reputational and The Group aims to protect the franchise from material damage to its reputation by ensuring
Sustainability Risk that any business activity is satisfactorily assessed and managed by the appropriate level of
management and governance oversight. This includes a potential failure to uphold responsible
business conduct or lapses in our commitment to do no significant environmental and
social harm.
Integrated Risk Types Risk Appetite Statement
Climate Risk The Group aims to measure and manage financial and non-financial risks from climate change,
and reduce emissions related to our own activities and those related to the financing of clients,
in alignment with the Paris Agreement.
Digital Asset Risk This Integrated Risk Type is currently supported by Risk Appetite metrics embedded within
relevant Principal Risk Types.
Third-Party Risk This Integrated Risk Type is currently supported by Risk Appetite metrics embedded within
relevant Principal Risk Types.
1 The Group’s Risk Management Framework and System of Internal Control applies only to wholly controlled subsidiaries of the Group, and not to Associates, Joint
Ventures or Structured Entities of the Group.
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 49
Strategic
report
Expanding array of global tensions This could lead to a shift in supply chains for the future, with
The Russia-Ukraine war has catalysed a fundamental shift in increased contingency costs and production potentially
power dynamics with a demarcation of underlying political moving closer to consumers. This is further compounded by
alliances. Pressure is mounting on Russia, which may lead to increased scrutiny around the environmental and social
increasingly desperate military and political actions. impacts of supply chains.
Relations between China and other developed markets,
Energy security and shifting political alliances
particularly in the West, remain fragile, with sanctions being
The Russia-Ukraine war has exacerbated an already strained
imposed by both sides. Increasing technological restrictions
energy supply model in developed markets, spurring a rapid
and potential escalations in relation to Taiwan’s sovereignty
pivot away from traditional supply lines. This came amid
are among a number of flashpoints. Economic geopolitical
already increased tensions between nations as negotiating
actions could also escalate distrust, decoupling, and increase
power shifted towards energy exporters.
inefficient production, potentially generating further
inflationary pressures. Rising energy prices and potential supply shortfalls may cause
a rise in social unrest, especially in countries where there is
Election wins for extremist parties in a number of countries are
high dependence on energy imports.
adding to increased vulnerability and volatility – especially as
economics is becoming subservient to politics. Volatility in In the wake of the conflict, a trade-off between pragmatism
traditionally stable economies could cause further disruption. and environmentalism has materialised, with significant
divergence as some countries have embraced the renewables
Rivalry between the United States and China may have
opportunity while others have reversed, with rollbacks of
structural, operational and strategic impacts on business
green policies observed in some markets. Policymakers must
models for companies that straddle both.
balance supply and price pressures with climate goals, with a
heightened risk of short term crises diverting attention and
Emerging markets sovereign risk
resources away from longer term required climate action.
Emerging markets have been squeezed by escalating oil and
food prices, high interest rates and the legacy of COVID-19 on Rising material costs will also impact renewable energy
key industries such as tourism. development, potentially slowing the transition. The Group’s
plans for sustainable finance business growth could be
Distress has already been observed across several of the
achieved at a slower than expected pace.
Group’s footprint markets, including defaults in Sri Lanka and
Ghana, political instability in Pakistan, high inflation in Türkiye, How these risks are mitigated/next steps
and issues across Africa, particularly economies that are • We conduct thematic stress tests and portfolio reviews at a
sensitive to fuel prices. Group, country, and business level to assess the impact of
extreme but plausible events and manage the portfolio
For some countries with fragile governance frameworks, there
accordingly.
is a heightened risk of failure to manage social demands,
which might culminate in increased political vulnerability. • Vulnerable sectors are regularly reviewed and exposures to
Furthermore, food and energy security challenges have the these sectors are managed as part of Credit Risk reviews.
potential to drive other social impacts.
• Sovereign ratings, exposures, outlooks and country risk
Tightening of financial conditions in developed markets has limits are regularly monitored, and mitigating actions taken
also led to local currency depreciations against the US dollar, as required.
increasing debt servicing costs, and potentially restricting
• Exposures that may result in material credit impairment
debt re-financing. Foreign Exchange reserves have already
and increased risk-weighted assets are closely monitored
been heightened depleted in some markets, and local
and managed.
monetary policy may undermine already weak growth.
• We utilise Credit Risk mitigation techniques including credit
Extended supply chain issues and key material shortages insurance and collateral.
Demand and supply imbalances in global supply chains have • We track the participation of our footprint countries in
become persistent as they are increasingly structural in nature. G20’s Common Framework Agreement and Debt Service
The main dislocations are linked to conflict and political Suspension Initiative for Debt Treatments and the
restrictions on trade or investment. Repercussions range from associated exposure.
companies that are a party in the particular supply chain, to
end consumers and sovereigns. • We remain vigilant in monitoring geopolitical relationships.
Increased scrutiny is applied when onboarding clients in
Concentrated impacts to specific key industries such as sensitive industries and in ensuring compliance with
semi-conductors can have contagion effects. Political sanctions.
wrangling over technological supremacy further increases
the risk of market disruption and a retreat from globalisation.
Potential targeted restrictions on semiconductors could lead
to complete restructuring of global supply chains, impacting
most sectors.
Strategic report Risk overview
Environmental and Social Considerations Technological Considerations
ESG stakeholder expectations Data and Digital
Environmental targets are becoming embedded in global Regulatory requirements and client expectations relating to
business models, with increased pressure to set ambitious data management and quality, including data protection and
sustainability goals or apply more restrictions on financing to privacy, data sovereignty, the use of Artificial Intelligence (AI)
sensitive sectors. and the ethical use of data are increasing. Regulation is also
becoming more fragmented and complex, requiring more
There is also an increase in stakeholder expectations
resources to ensure ongoing compliance.
around fair and balanced disclosures, including marketing
campaigns. Scrutiny around greenwashing has accelerated Geopolitical tensions have added impetus to data
with various regulatory developments, such as the Financial sovereignty legislation, sometimes extraterritorial in nature.
Conduct Authority’s consultation on anti-greenwashing rules. There can also be conflicting guidance within the same
jurisdiction. There is heightened focus on economic sanctions
There is fragmentation in the pace and scale of adoption
and financial crime controls, reinforcing the need for robust
and regulation around the world, which adds complexity
control frameworks.
in managing a global business. Fragmentation in ESG
taxonomies may also lead to unintended consequences, Data protection risks are increasingly driven by highly
including misallocation of capital, political and litigation risks. organised and sophisticated threat actors, with
developments such as ransomware available as a service.
Human rights concerns are increasing in focus with scope
expanding beyond direct abuses to cover other areas such Data is becoming more concentrated in the hands of
as data management, technological advancement, and governments and big private companies, with relatively
supply chains. few providers of new technologies such as cloud services.
Some third parties are reluctant to disclose AI model details,
There are risks if the Group is required to adapt to new
citing intellectual property, which increases model risk.
fragmented regulations quickly, as well as meeting publicly
stated sustainability goals and helping clients transition. A balance between resilience and agility is required, as new
technologies are onboarded while existing systems are
How these risks are mitigated/next steps
maintained. Clear ownership, frameworks and oversight
• Increased scrutiny is applied to environmental and social
of new technologies is also required.
standards when providing services to clients.
How these risks are mitigated/next steps
• We monitor regulatory developments in relation to
• We monitor regulatory developments in relation to all
sustainable finance and ESG risk management and provide
aspects of data management, taking into account country
feedback on consultations bilaterally and through industry
specific requirements. We take a holistic view across data
groups on emerging topics.
risks to facilitate an efficient and comprehensive risk
• We focus on minimising our environmental impact and control environment.
embedding our values through our Position Statements for
• We have established a Data Management and Privacy
sensitive sectors and a list of prohibited activities that the
Operations team to assist with compliance with data
Group will not finance.
management regulations. This includes a dedicated
• We are integrating the management of greenwashing AI governance forum which includes review of third
risks into our Reputational and Sustainability Risk Type party solutions.
Framework, policies and standards. Green, Sustainable
• We have an inflight programme of work to drive
and Transition Finance labels for products, clients and
compliance to BCBS 239 requirements on effective risk
transactions reflect the standards set out in our Green
data aggregation and risk reporting.
and Sustainable Product Framework, Transition Finance
Framework and TCFD reporting. We regularly review these • We continue to deliver new controls and capabilities to
frameworks and annually obtain external verification on the increase our ability to identify, detect, protect and respond
Sustainable Finance asset pool. to ICS threats.
• The Group is committed to respecting universal human
New business structures, channels and competition
rights and we assess our clients and suppliers against
Failure to harness new technologies and new business models
various international principles, as well as through our
would place banks at a competitive disadvantage. However,
social safeguards and supplier charter. More details can
these innovations require specialist skills, present new vectors
be found in our Modern Slavery Statement and Human
for threats to materialise and require robust risk assessment
Rights Position Statement.
accordingly. Differing access to new developments will also
• Detailed portfolio reviews and stress tests are conducted to cause divergence and inequality to grow across countries and
test resilience to climate-related risks, in line with applicable social groups.
regulatory requirements.
Digital assets are gaining adoption and linked business
• Work is under way to embed Climate Risk considerations models continue to increase in prominence. These present
across all relevant Principal Risk Types. This includes stress material opportunities for businesses and consumers, as well
testing/scenario analysis, integration of client Climate Risk as potential risks as the space evolves, as evidenced by the
assessments within the Credit process, building an internal collapse of Futures Exchange (FTX) and other recent events,
modelling capability and linkages with our net zero targets further exacerbating digital asset market volatility.
to understand the financial risks and opportunities from
Increasing use of partnerships and alliances increases
climate change.
exposure to third-party risk. There is also risk of inadequate
risk assessments of new and unfamiliar activities.
50 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Strategic report Stakeholders and Sustainability
Stakeholders and
Sustainability
54 Stakeholders
64 Sustainability
66 Accelerating Zero: Our approach
to climate change
76 Reducing our emissions
90 Mitigating Environmental and Social Risk
113 Governance of our Sustainability Agenda
G[[ oing net zero
in 275 branches]]
In 2022, we created 275 net zero
branches in India, China and Hong
Kong, and certified 120 sites in Asia
and two in Africa as being free of
single-use plastic. We are continuing to
invest in transitioning our branches to
net zero with all new properties built
and designed for True Zero Waste and
zero emissions impact. Our aim is to
have all property transitioned to net
zero by 2025, including branches.
Read more online at sc.com/netzero
52 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Strategic report Stakeholders
Stakeholders
This section forms our Section 172 disclosure,
As an international bank
describing how the directors considered the
operating in 59 markets, matters set out in section 172(1)(a) to (f) of the
Companies Act 2006. It also forms the directors’
stakeholder engagement
statement required under section 414CZA of
is crucial in ensuring we
the Act.
understand local, regional
See the following pages for:
and global perspectives
• How we engage stakeholders to understand their interests
and trends which inform See pages 55 to 63
how we do business. • How we engage employees and respond to their interests
See pages 60 to 63
• How we respond to stakeholder interests through
sustainable and responsible business
See pages 64 to 113
Our stakeholders
Detailed information about how the Board engages directly
with stakeholders and shareholders can be found in the
Director’s report on pages 134 to 231.
Clients
Examples of a selection of the Board’s principal decisions are
included throughout this section.
Regulators and governments This section also forms our key non-financial disclosures in
relation to sections 414CA and 414CB of the Companies Act
2006. Our non-financial information statement can be found
at the end of this section on page 124.
Investors
Suppliers
Society
Employees
H[[ elping Ismail
build skills with
Futuremakers]]
In March 2022, Ismail, a graduate with cerebral
palsy, became a Futuremaker in our first economic-
empowerment project for young people with disabilities
in Pakistan.
The training helps learners like Ismail build the skills and
confidence they need to make smart career choices and
enter employment.
Ismail completed the training and entrepreneurship
modules and applied his learning to ace an interview and
land his first paid job at a government agency.
54 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Strategic
report
Listening and responding to stakeholder This was further enabled with self-serve digital tools and
priorities and concerns is critical to achieving capabilities such as chatbot, our mobile banking app,
application programming interface (API) connectivity and
our Purpose and delivering on our brand
data analytics, which reduced operating costs and improved
promise, here for good. We strive to maintain client experience. Our agile working practices have also
open and constructive relationships with accelerated our speed of decision-making and change
a wide range of stakeholders including delivery to meet client needs faster.
regulators, lawmakers, clients, investors, Refining our processes through continuous improvement has
civil society and community groups. enabled us to achieve benefits in revenue and costs savings
by creating capacity and reducing client waiting times.
In 2022, we made improvements to some of our feedback
As an integrated team, we drove digital transformation and
processes, so that client needs could be addressed by
leveraged networks in service to our clients on our proprietary
relationship managers as they emerged. Our engagement
platforms across 47 markets. We have processes and
took many forms, including one-to-one sessions using online
guidelines in place, specific to each of our client businesses,
channels and calls, virtual roundtables, written responses and
to understand and respond to issues and promptly
targeted surveys. These conversations, and the issues that
resolve complaints.
underpin them, help inform our business strategy and support
us to operate as a responsible and sustainable business. Meanwhile, we continued to engage with our clients to
help them expand across borders, using our international
Stakeholder feedback, where appropriate, is communicated
network to help them access existing and new trade corridors.
internally to senior management through the relevant forums
Our presence in high-growth markets – and ongoing roll out
and governing committees such as the Sustainability Forum,
of digital platforms – helps connect our clients to the global
and to the Board’s Culture and Sustainability Committee
engines of trade and innovation.
(CSC) which oversees the Group’s approach to its main
relationships with stakeholders. As part of our aim to reach net zero carbon emissions by 2050,
our newly-formed transition finance team have been working
We communicate progress regularly to external stakeholders
closely with our clients in hard-to-abate sectors on their own
through channels such as sc.com, established social media
transition planning. This is in addition to our plan to mobilise
platforms and this report. More detailed information on
$300 billion of Sustainable Finance between 2021 and 2030.
material sustainability topics can be found in our
Sustainability section on pages 64 to 124. Across both CCIB and Consumer, Private and Business
Banking (CPBB), we have processes and controls to mitigate
greenwashing risks, and to support transparency we publish
Clients the details of what constitutes our sustainable investments
universe externally.
How we create value
Accelerating adoption of our API offerings
We want to deliver easy, everyday banking solutions to our
clients in a simple and cost-effective way with a great
We are committed to helping our corporate clients
customer experience. We enable individuals to grow and
achieve the benefits of real-time treasury operations, so
protect their wealth; we help businesses trade, transact,
we developed an application programming interface
invest and expand; and we help a variety of financial
(API) banking platform for foreign exchange transactions,
institutions, including banks, public sector and development
payment initiation, payment status and account
organisations, with their banking needs.
balances. Our Premium Banking APIs were awarded the
title of ‘Top Performer’ in the FinLync 2022 Power Rankings
How we serve and engage Report, in recognition of our revamped API Marketplace
In 2022, Corporate, Commercial and Institutional Banking and sandbox for testing APIs.
(CCIB) strengthened its annual feedback process by
capturing how clients feel about what we offer, including
In CPBB, we work closely with third-party ESG data providers
advice, customer service and digital channels.
to support the development of product ideas, and extensive
CCIB also focused on building a consistent digital experience due diligence is conducted by our in-house team on our high
and accelerated delivery through Cash, Trade, Financial conviction suite of sustainable funds.
Markets and Data Solutions.
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 55
Strategic report Stakeholders
Stakeholders
continued
Clients continued
In CPBB, training is provided to frontline staff across our Throughout 2022, we also maintained our sharp focus
branches, contact centres and digital channels to identify and on improving the client experience across the Bank.
support vulnerable clients, and we have also implemented an We engaged with clients to show them the opportunities
educational training programme for those clients who require trade corridors could bring and how using our network could
assistance in navigating online and mobile channels. help them flourish.
Our push for a best-in-class client experience is underpinned Our focus on partnerships in CPBB is showing results with
by innovative products and digital straight-through services. new partnerships launched in Vietnam, Indonesia and more
This includes building capability to protect our clients recently Singapore in addition to the partnerships we have
against evolving risks in the ecosystem like fraud and in China. These partnerships have incrementally acquired
cyber security and comes with education and increased 1.2 million clients, many of whom have the potential to avail
client communication. themselves of the full suite of CPBB products.
In order to act in the best interests of our clients, we use our 2022 saw a significant increase in our digital wealth
insights gathered from our data alongside robust policies, capabilities with the delivery of Online Equity platforms in
procedures and the Group’s risk appetite to design and offer Malaysia and the United Arab Emirates and the myWealth
products and services that meet client needs, regulatory Direct service in Hong Kong which offers personalised insights
requirements and Group performance targets, while and investment ideas directly to clients.
contributing to a sustainable and resilient environment.
In 2023, we will continue to listen and respond to stakeholder
Wealth and Personal Banking products have increased priorities and concerns, addressing feedback as it emerges,
sustainable product options for distribution to our clients. strengthen our digital transformation and innovation
We now offer sustainable deposits in seven markets, green capabilities, and support our clients as they transition to
mortgages in six markets, sustainable investments in net zero.
16 markets and carbon-neutral cards in 17 markets.
Their interests
All new products are subjected to a comprehensive approvals
process. For investment products sold to individuals, this • Differentiated product and service offering
includes risk scores which aid our assessment of client • Digitally enabled and positive experience
suitability. We consider each client’s financial needs and
personal circumstances to assist us in offering suitable • Sustainable finance
product recommendations. • Access to international markets
We achieve this using a globally consistent methodology
that takes into consideration local regulatory requirements
to review product risks against the client’s risk appetite,
considering financial objectives, financial ability, and
knowledge. Clients are also provided with clear and simple
documentation that outlines key product features and risks
prior to executing a transaction.
Fees and charges are disclosed to clients in line with
regulatory requirements and industry best practice, and
where available, benchmarked against competitors. For
Personal and Business Banking products, agreed interest
rates, fees and other charges as billed to clients are
monitored and assessed locally, with global oversight.
Triggers for outlier fees and charges are defined and subject
to annual review. Complaints are reviewed on an ongoing
basis and are one of the factors that are taken into account
prior to amendments to annual interest, fees and charges.
We also assess our product portfolio for new risks to ensure
they remain appropriate for client needs and aligned to
emerging regulation. These quantitative and qualitative
assessments, including Periodic Product Reviews, are intended
to provide a complete view of whether to continue, enhance,
grow or retire products.
56 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Strategic
report
Regulators and governments Investors continued
How we create value The Group has delivered a strong performance in 2022, with
return on tangible equity (RoTE) back above pre-pandemic
We engage with public authorities to play our part in
levels. We are executing well against the five strategic actions
supporting the effective functioning of the financial system
we set out earlier in the year while navigating through a
and the broader economy.
challenging external environment. Our aim is to accelerate
the delivery of our ambition of double-digit RoTE.
How we serve and engage
Regular and transparent engagement with our investors,
We actively engage with governments, regulators and
and the wider market, helps us understand investors’ needs
policymakers at a global, regional and national level to share
and tailor our public information accordingly. In addition to
insights and support the development of best practice, and
direct engagement from our Investor Relations team, we
adoption of consistent approaches, across our markets.
communicate through quarterly, half and full-year results,
In 2022, we engaged with regulators, government officials conferences, roadshows, investor days and media releases.
and trade associations on a broad range of topics that There was continued adoption of virtual mediums during
included international trade, sustainability, data, cyber the year, coupled with a growing number of face-to-face
security, digital adoption, and innovation. We also engaged interactions from the very low levels seen in the last two years.
with officials on the financial services regulatory environment, We hosted two capital market days, focusing on our Financial
in particular on prudential, financial markets, conduct and Markets business and Consumer, Private and Business
financial crime frameworks. Banking Affluent Clients in June and November respectively.
In support of this, we have a Group Public and Regulatory
Affairs team responsible for engagement as well as
identifying and analysing relevant policies, legislation and
regulation. This work is overseen by various governance
forums within the Bank, which comprise senior executives
representing business and control functions to support
alignment between advocacy and business strategies.
Principal Board decision – market entries
For more details on our engagement with regulators and
governments, as well as our industry and membership associations and exits
please see sc.com/politicalengagement
We are accelerating our strategy to deliver efficiencies,
Their interests
reduce complexity and drive scale. During 2022, the Board
• Strong capital base and liquidity position approved a set of actions to focus resources within the
Africa and Middle East (AME) region to those areas
• Robust standards for conduct and financial crime
where they can have the greatest scale and growth
• Healthy economies and competitive markets potential, for the benefit of our shareholders, employees
and customers.
• Positive sustainable development
Subject to regulatory approval, we intend to exit onshore
• Digital innovation in financial services
operations in seven markets in AME, and in a further two
• Operational resilience markets to focus solely on our CCIB business. The Group
has invested heavily in recent years in the AME region,
• Customer protection
including fundamentally transforming its digital
capabilities in its African markets. It has also been
expanding its footprint to cover some of the largest and
fastest-growing economies, having recently opened its
Investors first branch in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and obtained
preliminary approval for a banking licence in the Arab
How we create value
Republic of Egypt. The seven markets where there will be
We aim to deliver robust returns and long-term sustainable a full exit of operations are Angola, Cameroon, Gambia,
value for our investors. Jordan, Lebanon, Sierra Leone and Zimbabwe. In
Tanzania and Cote d’Ivoire, the Consumer, Private and
How we serve and engage Business Banking businesses will be exited and the focus
We rely on capital from debt and equity investors to will turn solely to CCIB.
execute our business model. Whether they have short or
As part of the Board’s decision-making, it recognised that
long-term investment horizons, we provide our investors
there were a number of potential challenges, risks, costs
with information about progress against our strategic and
and significantly impacted stakeholders to consider,
financial frameworks.
which management was also aware of. Carefully
Through our footprint and the execution of our sustainability designed and executed engagement with regulators,
agenda, we provide our investors with exposure to governments and employees, as well as with other key
opportunities in emerging markets. We believe that our stakeholders, continues to be crucial. The Board has
integrated approach to ESG issues, as well as a strong risk received regular updates since the decision was made.
and compliance culture, are key differentiators.
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 57
Strategic report Stakeholders
Stakeholders
continued
Investors continued Suppliers
Key investor feedback, recommendations and requests are How we create value
considered by the Board, whose members keep abreast of
Through the engagement of suppliers, both locally and
current topics of interest. Standard Chartered PLC’s Annual
globally, we seek to support our business with the provision
General Meeting (AGM) in May was open to shareholders to
of efficient and sustainable goods and services.
attend either in person or electronically where they were
provided a platform to view a live video feed of the meeting.
How we serve and engage
All participants were provided with the opportunity to submit
Supplier selection, due diligence and contract management
their votes and ask the Board questions.
process is guided by our Third-Party Risk Management
Similarly, the Group Chairman, alongside some members of Policy and Standards. In 2022, we further strengthened our
the Board, hosted a ‘hybrid’ stewardship event for institutional supplier governance given potential increased risk and
investors in November which provided a platform for regulatory scrutiny.
shareholders to receive an update on a number of topics,
Our Supplier Charter sets out our aspirations in relation to
including sustainability, net zero and governance matters.
ethics, human rights, diversity and inclusion (D&I), and
The event included an open question-and-answer session
environmental performance. All newly onboarded suppliers
across a range of key issues.
are expected to agree to adhere with the principles set out in
An external investor sentiment survey was also conducted our Supplier Charter. We seek to reinforce this through the
on an anonymous basis during the year, seeking insight into terms of our standard contract templates, where possible, and
how the Group was perceived, to identify areas of focus for we further encourage alignment to this by sending an annual
investors and understand how the Group could improve its letter to all our active suppliers. This also includes guidance
investor communications. This was particularly important regarding our technology platforms, sustainability aspirations,
given the changes in the external environment and the payment processes and other relevant principles such as Anti
evolution of the Group’s strategy. The Board discussed Bribery and Corruption.
key areas which it should focus on to address concerns
We select and work with suppliers whom we believe support
highlighted by investors and emerging from the report.
us to provide efficient and value-adding goods and services
We continue to respond to growing interest from a wide to our businesses both globally and locally. For example,
range of stakeholders on ESG matters, including investors. during 2022, we partnered closely with our credit/debit card
We sought shareholder endorsement for our net zero manufacturing supplier Thales, who went the extra mile to
pathway at the AGM, intended as a means by which we will accommodate our demand amidst a scarcity of chips. This
measure progress, engage and gather views. We also work resulted in the Bank being able to successfully fulfil the spike in
with sustainability analysts and participate in sustainability demand, due to the very successful launch of our Singapore
indices that benchmark our performance, including the digital-only bank – Trust Bank – securing our market
Carbon Disclosure Product (CDP) Climate Change survey positioning and fulfilling customer expectations.
and Workforce Disclosure Initiative.
In 2022, we continued to make progress on our supply-chain
In 2023, we will continue to engage with investors on sustainability agenda. In pursuit of our ambition of achieving
progress against our strategic priorities and actions, as net zero in our operations by 2025, we continued to offset
well as our financial framework as we progress towards emissions from our business flights. In partnership with an
our returns target. independent climate consultancy, we continued refining the
Scope 3 upstream emissions measurement methodology
Their interests which was used to estimate our supplier emissions.
• Safe, strong and sustainable financial performance
Our Stands have served to further embed our supplier D&I
• Facilitation of sustainable finance to meet the UN approach. In 2022, we started to report and monitor supplier
Sustainable Development Goals D&I indicators across our footprint, and 93 per cent1 of our
core markets now have supplier D&I programmes to help
• Progress on ESG matters, including advancing our
accelerate progress and impact in our local communities.
net zero agenda
So far, more than 1,500 employees have been trained
internally to build capability to deliver our supplier D&I aims.
In addition, we continue to partner with multiple local and
global non-governmental organisations (NGOs) to identify
and onboard more sustainable and diverse-owned suppliers
across our core markets.
1 26 out of 28 in-scope markets
58 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Strategic
report
Society
In Kenya we work with An-Nisa Taxi Limited, who provide How we create value
self-employed female-driven taxi services to the Bank. This We strive to operate as a sustainable and responsible
provides women employees and clients in Kenya with the company, working with local partners to promote social
option to work and travel in a safe environment. An-Nisa’s and economic development.
overall vision is to increase employment opportunities for
women in what is currently a male-dominated sector.
How we serve and engage
Working with An-Nisa means Standard Chartered can
We engage with a wide range of civil society and
directly contribute to positively impacting the life of the
international and local NGOs, from those focused on
women who own and drive the taxis.
environmental and public policy issues to partners delivering
In 2023, supply chain sustainability will continue to be a our community programmes. To shape our strategy, we aim
primary focus. We intend to progress integration of for constructive dialogue that helps us to understand
environmental and social risks into our Third-Party Risk alternative perspectives and that our approach to doing
Management Framework. Also, we plan to roll out new business is understood. This includes working with NGOs that
initiatives to help create social impact and further reduce approach us about a specific client, transaction or policy.
carbon emissions within our own operations and supply chain.
In 2022, climate change, our net zero pathway, human
Our Supplier Charter can be viewed at sc.com/suppliercharter rights and biodiversity continued to underpin many of our
conversations. We primarily received NGO feedback via
Read more about our supplier diversity standard: our public inbox and responded to queries in line with our
sc.com/supplierdiversity
Reporting & Engagement Standard. For complex issues such
as climate change, we held bilateral virtual meetings with
Their interests
NGOs to exchange perspectives in greater depth. In advance
• Sustainability and diversity of our AGM, we commissioned GlobeScan, a leading market
research provider, to conduct 20 stakeholder interviews with
• Open, transparent and consistent tendering process
leaders across NGOs, academia, business and specialty
• Willingness to adopt supplier-driven innovations research institutes from seven countries to analyse how our
net zero pathway aligns to external expectations.
• Accurate and on-time payments
In 2023, we anticipate mapping our NGO relationships to
identify topics and geographies where we can strengthen
our engagement.
We hosted a third edition of the Futuremakers Forum, bringing
together over 1,700 clients, employers, NGOs, employees and
project participants from 61 markets to build partnerships and
create economic opportunities focused on young people.
Through the two-day virtual event, we deepened our
understanding of financial products and services young
people want and need to unleash their full potential.
To increase employee engagement, we launched Mentors
Den for almost 400 colleagues across 12 markets to provide
career advice and support to over 650 Futuremakers
participants. In 2022, Futuremakers reached 335,386 young
people with education, employability and entrepreneurship
opportunities.
Their interests
• Climate change and decarbonisation
• Biodiversity and animal welfare
• Human rights
• Financial inclusion
• Social impact
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 59
Strategic report Stakeholders
Stakeholders
continued
Employees
How we create value Key measures of employee satisfaction have stayed stable
We recognise that our workforce is key to driving our in 2022, with an increase in our employee Net Promoter
performance and productivity and that the diversity of our Score (NPS) (which measures whether employees would
people, cultures and network sets us apart. To lead the way in recommend working for us) and a slight drop in our employee
addressing the evolving needs of our clients and the advances engagement index. We are encouraged to see that 96 per
in technology, we are developing a workforce that is future- cent of employees feel committed to doing what is required to
ready and are co-creating with our employees an inclusive, help the Group succeed, 88 per cent feel proud about working
innovative and client-centric culture that drives ambition, for the Group, and 83 per cent say that the Group meets or
action and accountability. exceeds their expectations. The scores indicate that we have
continued to improve as a place to work.
How we serve and engage In addition to leveraging inputs from employee surveys, the
By engaging employees and fostering a positive experience Board and Management Team also engage with and listen
for them, we can better serve our clients and deliver on our to the views of colleagues through interactive sessions.
Purpose and Stands. A culture of inclusion and ambition More information on the Board’s engagement with the
enables us to unlock innovation, make better decisions, workforce can be found on page 162 in the Directors’ Report.
deliver our business strategy, live our valued behaviours and
Externally, our Glassdoor rating (out of five) has increased
embody our brand promise: here for good. We proactively
from 3.7 in 2019 to 3.9 in 2022, and 79 per cent would
assess and manage people-related risks, for example,
recommend working with us to friends. We also continue to
organisation, capability and culture, as part of our Group
be recognised as an employer of choice, in 2022, we ranked as
risk management framework.
one of the World’s Best Employers in Forbes for the second
Our People Strategy, which was approved by the Board time; ranked as a Diversity Leader for the third consecutive
in mid-2019, stays relevant and future-focused, with the year in the Financial Times report on Diversity and Inclusion
pandemic having accelerated many of the future of work in Europe; ranked for the second time within the Top 100
trends which informed our approach. organisations in the Refinitiv Diversity and Inclusion Index;
and were also recognised in the Bloomberg Gender-Equality
Their interests Index for the seventh consecutive year.
Translating our here for good brand promise and Purpose All of this is indicative of our progress in further strengthening
+of ‘Driving commerce and prosperity through our unique our employee value proposition to attract, retain and grow
diversity’ into our colleagues’ day-to-day experience is critical the skills and talent that are critical to delivering our strategy
to us remaining an employer of choice across our footprint. and outcomes for clients.
The research we have on our Employee Value Proposition
(EVP) tells us that our employees, or potential employees,
want to: have interesting and impactful jobs; innovate within Group KPI: Employee engagement
a unique set of markets and clients; cultivate a brand that
sustainably drives commerce and offers enriching careers and
Employee net promoter score (eNPS)
development; and be supported by great people leaders.
They want these elements to be anchored in competitive
+4.1
rewards and a positive work–life balance. The employment %
proposition is a key input to our People Strategy which
supports the delivery of our business strategy. 2022 17.55
Listening to employees 2021 12.94
Frequent feedback from employee surveys helps us identify
2020 17.51
and close gaps between colleagues’ expectations and
their experience. In addition to our annual survey, we use 2019 11.51
continuous-listening mechanisms that capture colleague
sentiment more frequently, through a rolling culture survey eNPS measures the number of promoters (who would recommend the Group
and through surveys at key moments for our employees, as a great place to work) compared with detractors on a scale from -100 to +100.
such as when they join us, when they leave, and when they This is reflected in the percentage change calculation.
return to work after parental leave. Aim Increase engagement across the Group by creating
a better working environment for our employees that should
In 2022, our annual My Voice survey was conducted in
translate into an improved client experience.
May and June: 87 per cent of our employees (65,988) and
44 per cent of eligible agency workers (1,797) participated Analysis eNPS has increased year-on-year from 2021 and
in the survey. significantly increased since 2016 (2.44 in 2016) when we
started our culture transformation.
60 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Strategic
report
Employees continued
The health, safety, and resilience of our colleagues (including Toolkits and guidance have been provided to individuals and
in worsening pandemic conditions in some markets or other leaders to help navigate hybrid working, including support
crisis situations) continues to be a key priority. We are mindful on how to organise team and individual work in ways that
that the levels of stress felt by employees increased in the 2022 maximise productivity and wellbeing; on leading in key
My Voice survey from previous years. At the same time, the moments such as onboarding new team members, returning
survey data also indicated that they felt more supported on from parental leave and during performance conversations;
their wellbeing needs, especially around their mental and and on recreating ‘water cooler’ moments in hybrid work
physical health. Globally, we offer colleagues access to a environments. We continue to re-imagine our physical
mental health app, a physical wellbeing online platform, an workspaces with the relevant infrastructure and technology
employee assistance programme, wellbeing toolkits, learning to provide hubs for teamwork, collaboration and learning.
programmes on resilience as well as an expanding network of
Read more about our approach to hybrid working at
trained Mental Health First Aiders. We also continue to aim to sc.com/hybridworking
mitigate the causes of work-related stress, encourage focus
on supportive behaviours within existing processes and Strengthening our culture of high-performance
decision-making, and seek to insert wellbeing skills-building
As the Group transforms to achieve our strategic ambitions,
across learning interventions.
we have refreshed the way we manage, recognise and
reward performance (launched as myPerformance in 2022).
Adapting to a hybrid world of work
We aim to build a strong culture of ambition, action and
2022 saw renewed optimism as pandemic-related restrictions accountability by focusing on continuous feedback, coaching,
eased in many of our markets, creating opportunities for and balanced two-way performance and development
employees to increasingly engage with clients, colleagues conversations. As we place even greater emphasis on
and communities in person. We continue to implement the recognising outperformance that is driven by collaboration
flexi-working model that we initiated in 2021, combining and innovation, and encourage more flexibility and aspiration
flexibility in working patterns and locations. The model has during goal-setting, we have removed individual performance
now been rolled out in 43 of our markets, with 78 per cent ratings for all employees.
of employees in these markets on agreed flexi-working
Behavioural changes are already visible and we will further
arrangements. This has been a significant step towards
embed the cultural shift through a multi-year journey. In 2022,
building on the positive lessons learnt from the pandemic
over 291,000 pieces of feedback were exchanged among
around productivity and employee experience. Our model is
colleagues (which is 1.5 times the amount of feedback that
enabling us to be more inclusive of the diverse needs of our
was exchanged in the previous year). More than half of our
workforce and support their wellbeing and at the same time
people leaders received feedback from their direct reports,
consciously balance individual choice and flexibility with
through our ‘always on’ feedback tool available to all
business priorities and client needs. Hybrid workers have
colleagues as well as through the 360-degree feedback tool
expressed greater satisfaction with overall employee
that has been launched for mid-to-senior people leaders.
experience and work-life balance in the 2022 My Voice survey
We believe that the increase in upward feedback indicates
in comparison to employees working fully remotely or fully in
a greater sense of psychological safety in the organisation.
the office.
The feedback is also providing useful input for further building
As employees have started to experience their agreed hybrid leadership capabilities across the Group.
working arrangements with the easing of pandemic-related
Strengthening leadership capability, specifically in our people
restrictions, they have also been required to explore and
leaders who are most directly responsible for the development
adopt ways of working in a ‘new normal’ that balances the
of their teams, is a key enabler of our performance and culture.
benefits of remote working with face-to-face interactions.
People leaders stepped up throughout the pandemic and
we saw manager NPS continue to increase to 33.07 in 2022
Building leaders that Aspire, Inspire (+ 3.35 points year-on-year). As the expectations that
and Execute employees have of their people leaders continue to grow and
evolve, we are also re-imagining how we embed leadership
Exceptional performance requires exceptional leadership. deep into the organisation. Our Leadership Agreement forms
With inputs from our colleagues, we have captured in our the foundation for a modernised leadership development
Leadership Agreement what we believe it takes to lead at offering that all people leaders will complete over the next
Standard Chartered. We are asking each colleague to three years. We are also encouraging leadership capability
Aspire, Inspire and Execute to take us from where we are building across all employees through the Leadership
today to where we have committed to be, and to deliver Academy on our online learning platform diSCover, during
on our Purpose. In 2022, over 7,900 colleagues have our annual Global Learning Week, and through a 60-day
voluntarily signed up to this agreement. We are Leadership Health journey of regular micro-learning activities.
embedding this standard of leadership into how we
induct, develop, measure and recognise our leaders. Read our Leadership Agreement at sc.com/leadershipagreement
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 61
Strategic report Stakeholders
Stakeholders
continued
Employees continued
Developing skills of future strategic value Creating an inclusive workplace
The rapid changes in the world of work demand that our We believe that inclusion is how we will enable our diverse
employees strengthen a combination of human and technical talent to truly deliver impact. Our progress in this space is
skills to keep pace. We are building a culture of continuous reflected in our annual My Voice survey, where 83.1 per cent
learning that empowers employees to grow and follow their of employees reported positive sentiments around our culture
aspirations. We are helping them to build the skills needed for of inclusion, which is higher than last year. This has been
high performance today, to reskill and upskill for tomorrow enabled by increasing awareness around diversity and
and to be global citizens who understand the changing inclusion principles, unconscious bias and micro behaviours as
nature of the world in which we operate. Since 2020, the well as emphasising the importance of creating an inclusive
average hours invested by employees in personal environment – aspects that are covered in the ‘When we’re all
development has increased by 23.8 per cent to 26.8 hours included’ learning programme which had been completed by
in 2022. over 28,000 colleagues by the end of 2022.
We have continued to balance learning in classrooms with Colleagues are also encouraged to join employee resource
learning through our online learning platform diSCover, which groups aligned to shared characteristics or life experiences
is also accessible via a mobile app. Over 77,000 colleagues (including gender, ethnicity and nationality, generations,
actively used the platform in 2022 and 32,000 colleagues sexual orientation, and disability). ERGs across our markets
have used one or more of our Future Skills Academies which provide additional learning, development and networking
include the Data & Analytics, Digital, Cyber, Client Advisory, opportunities, especially for underrepresented populations,
Sustainable Finance and Leadership Academies. Employees and are a valuable source for better understanding the lived
also have the opportunity to learn and practise new skills experience of our workforce. This has already resulted in
on the job through projects (often cross-functional and improvement through actions - such as the expansion of
cross-location) and mentoring made available through our more accessible and assistive technology to support better
AI-enabled Talent MarketPlace platform. Since the launch access to necessary tools for work, the launch of our SC Pride
of the platform, employees have signed up for over 1,200 Charter to cultivate a respectful and safe work environment,
projects, unlocking close to $4 million in terms of productivity. and the release of an inclusive language guide to promote
psychological safety and review business terms to be
We have further scaled the design and deployment of
more inclusive.
targeted upskilling and reskilling programmes directed
towards critical ‘future’ roles where our strategic workforce Read our inclusive language guide at sc.com/inclusivelanguageguide
planning analysis has predicted the increasing need for talent,
including universal bankers, data translators, cloud security Our gender diversity continues to grow with more women
engineers and cyber security analysts. This approach has leaders moving up to senior roles. Women currently represent
united our recruitment, talent management and learning 43 per cent of the Board, 16 of our CEOs are women, and
efforts to target, upskill and deploy employees into new roles. representation of women in senior leadership roles increased
We are strengthening and scaling our work on sustainability, to 32.1 per cent at the end of 2022. We are committed to
innovation, performance, digital and leadership skills-building, continuous improvement in this area and aspire to have
both across and within roles. 35 per cent representation of women at a senior level by 2025.
This aspiration is further supported by programmes such as
our IGNITE Coaching programme, which develops our women
talent in preparation for future roles.
We remain focused on building a workforce that is truly
Building a disability confident organisation representative of our client base and footprint. As of 2022,
21 per cent of our Board identifies as being from a minority
Removing barriers and increasing accessibility have
ethnic background, and we have committed to the aspiration
been key focus areas. We build on the results from our
of reaching a minimum of 30 per cent. Further, 22.9 per cent
internal Disability Confident Assessment, conducted in
of our Global Management Team and their direct reports
more than 40 markets to date, to take directed action.
identify as Black, Asian or minority ethnic. In the United
We continue to enhance the accessibility of our
Kingdom, Black representation in senior leadership is
technology, including providing sign language
2.5 per cent and Black, Asian and minority ethnic in senior
functionality in e-learning programmes.
leadership is 18.1 per cent. In the United States, Black/African
Our continued partnership with the Purple Tuesday American representation in senior leadership is 3.1 per cent
initiative across more than 35 markets is increasing and Hispanic/Latinx in senior leadership is 9.4 per cent. We
the visibility of role models and careers for those with continue to develop strategic partnerships and extend our
disabilities. It is also building capabilities to break down Futuremakers RISE programme to increase the diversity of our
myths and stereotypes when engaging with clients and talent pipelines. As we work towards achieving our 2025 UK
colleagues with disabilities. We’re encouraged that, in and US ethnicity senior leadership aspirations, we are also
2022, a greater number of colleagues disclosed about focusing on nurturing local talent in markets across Asia,
having a disability and the annual My Voice survey Africa and the Middle East. We provide employees, where
highlighted improvements in their experience. legally permissible, the ability to self-identify ethnicity data
through our online systems, and are increasing awareness on
62 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Strategic
report
Employees continued
Female representation
Board Management Team and their direct reports
Female Female 2022 Female Female 2022
43 6 2021 32.8 43 2021
% %
Male Male
(2021: 31%) (2021: 28.4%)
8 88
Senior leadership All employees
(Managing directors and band 4)
Female Female 2022 Female Female 2022
32.1 1,420 2021 45.3 37,688 2021
% %
Male Male
(2021: 30.7%) (2021: 45.5%)
2,989 44,734
Undisclosed Undisclosed
13 844
the value and purpose of collecting this information. As we Compared with last year, our mean bonus pay gaps have
encourage and expect increased participation and self- decreased in every market while our mean hourly pay gaps
declaration of ethnicity, we aim for it to provide additional have remained mostly flat, with reductions seen in Singapore,
insights towards building an even more representative Hong Kong, and UAE. While our gender pay gaps have
workforce. steadily improved since our first disclosure for 2017, they
remain at a level that signifies proportionally more male than
We recognise six key D&I dates* across the year and use
female colleagues in senior roles and/or roles with higher
these as focal points to facilitate open dialogue on inclusion
market rates of pay.
internally and externally. Through these global campaigns we
engage and strengthen relationships with clients and external To complement the legislative approach in the UK, we also
stakeholders, collectively raising awareness, promoting best calculate an adjusted pay gap, which compares women and
practices and committing to take practical steps to advance men at the same hierarchy level and in the same business
the D&I agenda in the community. area. Mirroring previous years, the narrow margins for the
adjusted pay gap analysis indicate that our female and male
* International Day Against Homophobia, Transphobia and Biphobia,
International Day of Persons with Disabilities, International Men’s Day, colleagues in the same business areas and at the same levels
International Women’s Day, and World Day for Cultural Diversity for of seniority are paid similarly. Equal pay is a key commitment
Dialogue and Development, World Mental Health Day in our Fair Pay Charter and we carry out checks during hiring,
promotion and year-end review in all markets to challenge
Equal pay – Gender and Ethnicity Pay Gaps
potential bias and ensure there is equal pay for equal work.
To better understand the strengths and gaps of the
In addition to the gender pay gap analysis, this year we
organisation, and develop action plans to tap into the
have also prepared for the first time an ethnicity pay
potential of a truly diverse and inclusive workforce, we have
disclosure for the UK and the US. These two markets are
been analysing and publishing our gender pay gap statistics
our regional hubs where we have set ethnicity targets for
for our five hub locations (UK, US, Hong Kong, Singapore,
senior management representation.
and UAE). The gender pay gap is calculated based on the
approach by the UK government and compares the average Further details of our ethnicity pay and gender pay analysis can be
found in our Fair Pay Report at sc.com/fairpayreport
pay of men and women without accounting for some of the
key factors which influence pay, including different roles, skills,
seniority and market pay rates.
2022 Gender pay gap UK Hong Kong Singapore UAE US
Mean hourly pay gap1 29% 20% 30% 30% 25%
Mean bonus pay gap2 49% 39% 41% 57% 44%
1 The hourly pay gap is calculated by taking the difference between the mean female and male hourly pay, expressed as a percentage of the male amount
2 The Bonus pay gap is calculated by taking the difference between the mean female and male bonus payments received in the 12 months prior to 5 April,
expressed as a percentage of the male amount
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 63
Strategic report Sustainability
Driving a Sustainable Future
Including our response to the recommendations and recommended disclosures
of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
Our approach to ESG Reporting
We adopt an integrated approach to corporate reporting,
embedding non-financial information throughout this
annual report.
In line with our ‘comply or explain’ obligation under the
UK’s Financial Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules, we can
confirm that we have made disclosures consistent with the
TCFD recommendations and recommended disclosures
in this annual report, except for one area: we do not fully
disclose Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions as we are in the
process of conducting the detailed analysis of our portfolio
starting with the sectors which are most carbon intensive.
Consequently, in relation to financed emissions, in this
2022 Annual Report, we disclose our Scope 3 greenhouse This integration is intended to promote transparency,
gas emissions (GHG) for eight sectors. For FY23, we build trust and provide our investors with a better
plan to disclose our Scope 3 financed emissions for four understanding of the implications of climate-related
additional sectors. Beyond that, we aim to incrementally risks and opportunities for our businesses, strategy,
improve the portfolio coverage as market data on financial planning, governance and risk management.
emissions becomes more widely available. Further
information is available on pages 76 to 83. In line with
The following pages set out our approach and
the current UK Listing Rules requirements, our TCFD
progress relating to sustainability and its content is
disclosures also take into account the implementation
subject to the statements included in (i) the ‘Forward-
guidance included in the TCFD 2021 Annex.
Looking Statements’ section; and (ii) the ‘Basis of
Our disclosures are also guided by core standards, Preparation and Caution Regarding Data Limitations’
frameworks and principles to the extent relevant to section provided under ‘Important Notices’ at page
our business, as envisaged under the voluntary Global 498. Additional information can be accessed through
Reporting Initiative (GRI), SASB Standards, and the World our suite of supporting sustainability reports and
Economic Forum (WEF) Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics disclosures at sc.com/sustainability hub or via the
framework, Equator Principles (EP) and UN Principles for links below:
Responsible Banking.
See pages 68 to 72 for a summary of our TCFD disclosures.
Report/Disclosure Description Location
ESG Data Pack • Granular breakdown of quantitative
sc.com/esgdatapack
ESG information.
ESG Reporting Index • Alignment index tables to our priority
sc.com/esgreport
(to be published by end Q1 2023) reporting frameworks, including GRI,
SASB Standards, WEF, EP and UN PRB.
Modern Slavery Statement • This report sets out the steps we have
sc.com/modernslavery
taken to assess and manage the risk of
modern slavery and human trafficking
in our operations and supply chain.
Sustainable Finance • We present the impact of our Sustainable
sc.com/SFimpactreport
Impact Report Finance assets on a portfolio basis,
covering the whole range of our $13.5bn
worth of assets.
CDP Climate Change • We participate in the CDP Climate
sc.com/ESGratings
questionnaire, scoring an A- in 2022.
Workforce Disclosure Initiative • We continued our participation in the
(WDI) WDI in 2022, winning the award for most
transparent disclosures, and the Contingent
Workforce Data Award. We achieved an
overall disclosures score of 99% in the most
recent assessment.
64 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 65
SSttrraatteeggiicc
rreeppoorrtt
Creating our inaugural
Chief Sustainability Office
Achieving economic, social and environmental Measuring what matters most –
sustainability is one of the greatest challenges understanding our materiality
of our generation and a priority for the Group. Since 2016, our approach to striving towards a sustainable
and responsible business has been underpinned by our suite
In 1987, the United Nations Brundtland
of Sustainability Aspirations. These set out how we aim to
Commission defined sustainability as “meeting
promote social and economic development and deliver
the needs of the present without compromising sustainable outcomes in the areas in which we believe we can
the ability of future generations to meet their make the most material contribution to the delivery of the
UN Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs). We measure
own needs”. Here at Standard Chartered we are
progress against the targets set out in our Sustainability
considering what sustainability means to us, and
Aspirations and incorporate selected Aspirations into the
how it can be translated into implementable Group Scorecard to ensure consistent measurement, drive
investments and actions across the Group. widespread awareness and subsequently support delivery.
As a signatory of the UN Principles of Responsible Banking
Our Purpose is to drive commerce and prosperity through our (PRB), we utilise the guidance and tools provided as an input
unique diversity. Through our valued behaviours to never settle, to validating the areas of our greatest impact.
be better together, and do the right thing, we intend to truly
'Materiality' is considered to be the threshold for significance
live our brand promise to be here for good.
of reporting ESG issues for users of financial statements:
However, there are a number of global challenges ahead. investors and other stakeholders. We take into consideration
We are faced with worsening climate impacts, stark inequality, the guidance as provided by the IFRS Foundation Standards,
and unfair aspects of globalisation. Nowhere is this felt understanding that material issues are those which could
more keenly than in our core markets of Asia, Africa and reasonably be expected to influence decisions of those
the Middle East. users. We also note that materiality for ESG considers both
quantitative aspects as well as qualitative information,
We are taking a stand to combat these challenges and setting
including a regard for sustainable social and economic
long-term ambitions to help address the most pressing issues
development. This will evolve over time and we plan to
we face today when seeking to deliver sustainable social and
continue to assess our approach and reporting based on
economic development across our business, operations and
relevance to our users.
communities. In 2021, we formally recognised Sustainability as
a core component of our strategy, elevating it to a pillar of our
Group Strategy (see page 23). In July 2022, we took this a step
further and appointed Marisa Drew as our Chief Sustainability
Officer (CSO), to help drive our sustainability agenda and
bring together our existing Sustainable Finance, Net Zero
Programme Management and Sustainability Strategy Teams.
The dedicated CSO office harmonises our existing efforts in
sustainability and is responsible for creating and executing the
Group-wide sustainability strategy, including delivery against
our net zero pathway. With a presence in parts of the world
where sustainable finance can have the greatest impact,
and a wealth of experience across the Sustainable Finance
(SF) and Environmental and Social Risk Management (ESRM)
teams, our CSO office is well placed to support our clients in
their transition to net zero, mobilise capital at scale and help
develop solutions. Group KPI: +2.8%
Delivering Sustainability Aspirations %1
We want to help make the world a better, cleaner and safer
place. We also want to contribute towards facilitating a
just transition – one where climate objectives are met without 2022 85.7 %
depriving emerging markets of their opportunity to grow
and prosper. 2021 82.9 %
For more information on our sustainability governance see
pages 113 to 116. 2020 78.4 %
1 Each Aspiration contains one or more performance measures. The KPI is the
proportion of all measures that have been achieved or are on track to be
delivered at the end of the reporting period.
Further details on each Aspiration can be found
between pages 485 and 487.
Strategic report Sustainability
Accelerating zero:
Our approach to climate change
We believe that climate change is one of the greatest challenges
facing the world today and that its impact will hit hardest in the markets
where we operate, namely Asia, the Middle East and Africa.
Many of these markets are currently reliant on carbon-
intensive industries for their continued economic growth. considering this to be in the best interests of the
Facilitating a just transition – one where climate objectives Company and its shareholders as a whole. The
are met without depriving developing countries of their Board reviewed the pathway before its publication
opportunity to grow and prosper – will require care, capital and supported the Group’s strategic approach.
and specialised support.
In advance of the AGM and as part of the Board’s
We are well placed to help by directing capital to process, the Group undertook extensive engagement
emerging markets that have both the greatest with investors, proxy voting agencies, NGOs and other
opportunity to adopt low-carbon technology and some of stakeholders to gather feedback on our net zero
the toughest transition financing and climate challenges. pathway. A summary of feedback was provided to
the Board once these engagements had concluded
In recognition of the important role we can play in the
and was carefully reviewed. Engagement included:
transition, and in line with our Stand to Accelerate Zero,
in October 2021, we announced our plan to reach net • Engagement facilitated by Investor Forum, a
zero across our operations, supply chain and financed not-for-profit investor-funded engagement platform,
with investors to understand their perspectives on our
emissions by 2050, as well as our plan to set ambitious
net zero pathway.
interim targets to substantially reduce our financed
emissions by 2030. As a UK headquartered bank, our • Bilateral engagement by the Group, led by the
pathway takes into consideration the UK’s commitment Group Chairman and relevant Board members, with
under the Paris Agreement to reduce GHG emissions by at investors and proxy voting agencies to exchange
least 100 per cent of 1990 levels by 2050, and to reduce perspectives on our net zero pathway.
economy-wide GHG emissions by at least 68 per cent
• A roundtable hosted by Investor Forum, and with
by 2030. However, we are applying these targets and
participation of the Group Chairman to gather
ambitions across our global footprint, despite a number of
further feedback on the Group’s net zero pathway.
our footprint markets not having a commitment in place
to reach net zero within this timeline at the time of our net • Bilateral engagement, which included the Group
Chairman, with Market Forces and Friends Provident
zero pathway publication in October 2021.
Foundation to exchange perspectives on the
In May 2022, our Board sought an ordinary resolution on transition to net zero. Although we sought to
our net zero pathway at our Annual General Meeting reconcile our perspectives in one joint resolution,
(AGM). we were ultimately unable to do so.
• Commissioning a market research firm to interview
See sc.com/netzerowhitepaper leaders from NGOs, academia, business and
for more information. specialty research institutes from seven countries to
analyse how our net zero pathway aligns against
external expectations.
Principal Board decision – Shareholder
advisory vote on net zero pathway In line with the Board’s recommendation, the advisory
In October 2021, we announced our plan to reach resolution was endorsed with 83 per cent of shareholder
net zero in our financed emissions by 2050 and support at the 2022 AGM, and the requisitioned
proposed this as a shareholder advisory resolution resolution did not pass. The Board is aware that
at the Standard Chartered PLC’s (the Company) the transition to net zero is an ongoing process that
2022 AGM. Market Forces and Friends Provident requires continued review and challenge to assess
Foundation filed a resolution outlining a different its appropriateness. The Board oversees the Group’s
climate approach. Notwithstanding the fact that sustainability strategy with input from the Culture and
all parties are highly committed to contributing to Sustainability Committee. It is regularly apprised of the
the transition to net zero, the Board unanimously progress we are making against the ambitions in the
recommended that shareholders vote for our advisory net zero pathway and continues to be actively involved.
resolution and against the requisitioned resolution,
66 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 67
Strategic
report
Our net zero plan
Our net zero plan aims to faciliate solutions We have further investigated options and provided
financed emissions baselines and targets for eight sectors:
to reduce our emissions, catalyse sustainable
Oil and gas, Power, Coal mining, Steel, Other Metals and
finance and partnerships, and mitigate the
mining, Aviation, Automotive manufacturers, and Shipping,
financial and non-financial risks we may face covering approximately 61 per cent of the emissions within
associated with climate change. our CCIB portfolio. This work will continue through 2023 with
four further sector deep dives in the Aluminium, Cement,
In 2022, we mobilised $23.4 billion through our sustainable Commercial Real Estate (accelerated from 2024 to 2023)
financing activities, bringing our cumulative sustainable and Residential Mortgages sectors.
finance total to $48 billion since 2021. We continue to focus
As introduced on page 68, this year we have integrated our
on reducing the most harmful activities, by seeking to
TCFD disclosures in this Annual Report. The majority of this
reduce absolute financed thermal coal mining emissions
information can be found in the following section, with
by 85 per cent by 2030, from the 2020 baseline, alongside
supplementary information found, for example, within the
our long standing commitment to not provide any direct
Risk overview (pages 42 to 51), Corporate Governance
financing to coal-power projects.
(pages 146 to 183) and the Group Chief Financial Officer's
review (pages 32 to 40).
Reduce
our emissions
See page 74
Catalyse Mitigate the
sustainable financial
finance and and non-financial
partnerships risks
See page 84 See page 88
Strategic report Sustainability
TCFD summary and alignment index
The following table sets out the TCFD recommendations and recommended disclosures and summarises where additional
information can be found. Where we have not included climate-related financial disclosures consistent with all of the TCFD
recommendations and recommended disclosures, further information is provided on pages 64 and 77.
Recommendation Response Disclosure location
Governance
a) Describe the Board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities
Process and frequency of • The Board and its supporting committees, including the Board Risk Committee and Governance of our
communication to Board Culture and Sustainability Committee, are responsible for the oversight of climate- Sustainability Agenda
related risks and opportunities. They receive regular Climate Risk updates to guide – page 113
them when reviewing and making strategic decisions.
Incorporation of climate- Climate Risk was considered as part of our formal annual corporate strategy and financial Governance of our
related issues into Board planning process. Sustainability Agenda
and Board Committee • In 2022 we developed management scenarios with an aim to strengthen business – page 113
planning and decisions strategy and financial planning to support the Group’s net zero ambition. Qualitative review of
• The Board reviewed and approved our approach to reach net zero financed emissions climate risks and
by 2050. opportunities in annual
business strategy and
• Regional and client-segment Chief Risk Officers review revenue reliance from clients in financial planning –
high-carbon sectors and/or locations in regions most exposed to Physical Risk. page 95
Investing in Climate
Research – page 87
Board oversight of • The Board oversees the Group’s overall net zero plan, and in 2022 reviewed progress on Governance
climate-related goals delivery against the Group’s net zero plan and approved the Group Climate Risk committees and
and targets Appetite Statement and related Board-level metrics. steering groups with
committees – page 114
Sustainable Finance
Governance
Committee – page 116
b) Describe management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related risks and opportunities
Roles and responsibilities • Specific roles and responsibilities for the oversight of climate change have been Governance of our
for climate-related risks delegated to management. These are defined within the ‘Governance committees and Sustainability Agenda
and opportunities steering groups with responsibility for climate-related issues’ section. Climate-related – page 113
agenda frequency and inputs are also set out for these bodies. Governance
• The Chief Sustainability Office as led by the CSO is responsible for creating and committees and
executing the Group-wide sustainability strategy, including delivery against our net steering groups with
zero pathway. committees – page 114
• Responsibility for identifying and managing financial risks from climate change sits
with the Group Chief Risk Officer (Group CRO) as the appropriate Senior Management
Function (SMF) under the Senior Managers Regime (SMR).
• The Group CRO is supported by the Global Head, Enterprise Risk Management who has
day-to-day oversight and central responsibility for the Group’s second line of defence
against Climate Risk.
• The organisation structure associated with climate change has also been set out in the
‘Governance of our Sustainability Agenda’ chapter of our annual report.
A description of the • Several committees within the Group support the Board and Management Team on Governance of our
associated organisational the management and monitoring of climate change and its associated impacts. Sustainability Agenda
structures and their • The organisation structure associated with climate change has also been set out in the – page 113
monitoring of climate- ‘Governance of our Sustainability Agenda’ chapter of our annual report. Assessing and
related issues managing climate risk
– page 117
Processes used to inform • Management is informed by several committees and forums, with climate-related Governance
management information communicated via channels including our Group CRO and Climate Risk committees and
Information Reports. steering groups –
page 114
68 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 69
Strategic
report
Recommendation Response Disclosure location
Strategy
a) Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organisation has identified over the short, medium and long term
Relevant short-, medium-, • In our strategic business planning, we consider ‘short-term’ to be less than two years, Our net zero timeline –
and long-term ‘medium-term’ to be two to five years and ‘long-term’ to be beyond this. For climate page 73
time horizons scenario analysis we can run 30-year scenarios for both Physical and Transition Risk. Scenario analysis –
Some elements of our Physical Risk scenario analysis can also extend to 2100. page 90
Processes used to • We utilise a range of tools and methodologies, to assess Transition and Physical Scenario analysis –
determine material risks Climate Risk, which we apply to our clients, portfolios and our own operations. page 90
and opportunities These includes: scenario analysis, location-based hazard and risk scores, Overview of our
temperature alignment scores and Munich Re's NATHAN tool (acute physical Climate Risk toolkit and
risk impact assessments). application – page 99
• In addition, we engage with our corporate clients to understand their transition and
physical risks, as well as their plans to prepare for climate change.
• In 2022, we continued to enhance our understanding of climate-related risks, and
significantly strengthened our stress testing and scenario analysis abilities for a range
of management scenarios that are more plausible.
Climate-related risk and • We have assessed the impact of Climate Risk to the banking book using scenario Note 1 significant
opportunities identified analysis over a 30-year time horizon, which has enabled us to identify and mitigate judgement and
climate risks which may manifest. estimates – page 348
• In addition, sustainability and climate change have moved from being predominantly Sustainable Finance
risk-based initiatives to becoming a value driver. This gives us an opportunity to deploy mobilised – page 84
our market and industry knowledge to advise our clients on their individual
sustainability journeys.
• Sustainable finance is an opportunity to both defend our existing business from
Transition Risk, and to fund our clients' transition from a high-carbon present to a low
carbon future. Through supporting clients on their net zero journeys, and providing
further finance to clients as they adapt to be less carbon intensive and emitting over
time, we help mitigate their, and our, Transition Risk. Our aim to achieve Sustainable
Finance income of $1 billion by 2025 and to mobilise $300 billion of Sustainable Finance
by 2030 are measures of this success.
• We do not fully disclose impacts on financial planning and performance (including
proportions of income, costs and balance sheet related to climate-related
opportunities), detailed Climate Risk exposures for all sectors and geographies or
physical risk metrics. Data limitations, and our plans to mitigate these, are discussed
in greater detail in the report.
Significant concentrations • We have disclosed our exposures to high-carbon sectors which includes the expected Exposure to high
of credit exposure to credit losses on these balances as well as the maturity profiles associated with them. carbon sectors –
carbon-related assets Our exposure to high-carbon sectors makes up 14.4% of our CCIB loan balances. page 78
• We aim to become net zero in our financed emissions by 2050, with interim 2030 Reducing our emissions
targets for our highest emitting sectors. – page 74
• In 2022, we made progress towards this goal, and set out to measure, manage and
reduce emissions starting with our most carbon-intensive sectors, in line with our net
zero roadmap.
b) Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organisation’s businesses, strategy and financial planning
Impact of climate-related The specific areas impacted by climate issues include: Reducing emissions
risks and opportunities on Operations in our operations –
business areas • We have measured and reduced our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions since 2008 and page 74
since 2018 we have been actively targeting a reduction in our Scope 1 and 2 emissions Our suppliers –
towards a well-below two degrees Celsius scenario. reducing Scope 3
• We intend to optimise our office and branch network, continually maximising efficiency upstream emissions –
while leveraging clean and renewable power where appropriate, in line with our page 75
commitment to the global corporate renewable initiative, RE100, and to help us meet Catalysing finance
our own challenging targets. and partnerships for
Suppliers transition – page 84
• Through our Supplier Charter, we encourage our suppliers to support and promote
standards in environmental protection and to manage and mitigate environmental
risks.
• In 2022, we launched a global project to define strategies to address emissions related
to Scope 3 Category 1, 2, 4 and 6. Our internal targets cover reducing our emissions
related to Upstream transportation and distribution and Business travel by 28 per cent
against 2019 levels over the next seven years. Simultaneously, for Purchased goods and
services and Capital goods categories, we plan to engage our suppliers (covering circa
67 per cent of spend) to set science-based targets in the next five years.
Products and services
• We have set targets to achieve $1 billion of Sustainable Finance income by 2025, to
mobilise $300 billion of Sustainable Finance by 2030, and to launch and grow green
mortgages in key markets across our footprint.
• In 2022, we made progress against these targets, reporting $0.5 billion Sustainable
Finance income, mobilising $23.4 billion through our Sustainable Finance activities,
and launching green mortgages in three new markets.
Investment in research and development
• Our four-year partnership with Imperial College London covers long-term research on
Climate Risk, advisory on shorter-term, internally focused projects to enhance Climate
Risk capabilities and training of our colleagues, Management Team and Board.
Strategic report Sustainability
TCFD summary and alignment index continued
Recommendation Response Disclosure location
Incorporating climate- • In 2022, Climate Risk was considered as part of our formal annual corporate strategy Qualitative review of
related inputs into the and financial planning process. In addition, we developed management scenarios with climate risks and
financial planning process an aim to strengthen business strategy and financial planning to support the Group’s opportunities in
net zero journey. financial planning –
• In addition to this, from a capital perspective, Climate Risk considerations have been page 95
part of our Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) submissions. Processes for
managing Climate Risk
– page 113
Note 1 significant
judgement and
estimates – page 348
c) D escribe the resilience of the organisation’s strategy, taking into consideration different climate-related scenarios,
including a 2°C or lower scenario
Approach to scenario • Over recent years, we have progressively strengthened our scenario analysis Creating our inaugural
analysis capabilities and developed our infrastructure and capabilities to incorporate Climate Chief Sustainability
Risk into data, modelling, and analysis. Office – page 65
• Our work to date, using current assumptions and proxies, indicates that our business is Scenario analysis –
resilient to all Network of Central Banks and Supervisors for Greening the Financial page 90
System (NGFS) and International Energy Agency (IEA) scenarios that were explored.
• In 2021, we recognised Sustainability as a core component of our strategy, elevating it to
a pillar of our Group Strategy. In July 2022, we formalised this further and appointed our
inaugural Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO), to help drive our sustainability agenda and
bring together our existing Sustainable Finance, Sustainability Strategy, and Net Zero
Programme Management, teams.
Scenarios used • In 2022 we engaged a third-party vendor to begin development of bespoke internal Scenario analysis –
modelling capabilities to provide greater transparency. page 90
• In 2022, we assessed the impact on our CCIB corporate client portfolio based on three
IEA scenarios and three Phase 2 scenarios from the NGFS.
• We also assessed the impact of sea-level rises under various Intergovernmental Panel
on Climate Change (IPCC) Representative Concentration Pathways (RCP) scenarios to
explore the Physical Risk impact on the CPBB residential mortgage portfolio over short-
and long-term time horizons for internal risk management purposes.
Impact of climate-related • We are working to reduce our exposure to high carbon emitting activities and are Qualitative review of
risks and opportunities on supporting clients in these industries to transition to lower carbon technologies. climate risks and
business strategy • Our sustainable finance priorities, including new emerging products such as sustainable opportunities in annual
deposits, carbon trading and ESG Advisory, and dedicated transition frameworks, are a business strategy and
robust response to transition risks in the short term, strengthening our resilience financial planning –
towards a 2°C or lower transition scenario. page 95
Catalysing finance and
partnerships for
transition – page 84
Risk Management
a) Describe the organisation’s processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks
Processes for identifying • To support the management and monitoring of Physical and Transition risks, we Overview of our
and assessing risk continue to conduct case level reviews for enhanced due diligence on high ‘Climate Climate Risk toolkit and
Credit’ and ‘Climate and Reputational and Sustainability Risk’ for our corporate clients. application – page 98
• The toolkits are used to identify and assess: Climate Risk Taxonomy
– Physical Risk: current-day and longer-term time horizons (2050, 2100) representative table – page 96
concentration pathway (RCP) scenarios 2.6, 4.5 and 8.5, for acute weather events
(e.g. storms, floods or earthquakes) and chronic sea-level rise.
– Transition Risk: translates Orderly, Disorderly and ‘Hot-House’ world transition
scenario variables from NGFS and Net Zero Emissions by 2050, and Sustainable
Development and Announced Pledges scenario variables from IEA to financial
impact at a client level. Further information on client level assessments can be
found on page 102 and the limitations of our methodology on page 94.
– Temperature alignment: provides a temperature score to indicate client- and
portfolio-level global warming potential up to 2030.
– We define Climate Risk as the potential for financial loss and non-financial
detriments arising from climate change and society’s response to it. Within this,
we assess and define sub-risk types in the form of a climate risk taxonomy which
includes:
– Physical Risk: Risk arising from increasing severity and frequency of climate and
weather-related events.
– Transition Risk: Risks arising from the adjustment towards a carbon-neutral economy,
which will require significant structural changes to the economy.
70 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 71
Strategic
report
Recommendation Response Disclosure location
Existing and emerging • We have established a process for tracking various Climate Risk-related regulatory Processes for
regulatory requirements developments and obligations set by both financial and non-financial service managing Climate Risk
related to climate change regulators at Group and regional/country level, with roles and responsibilities set out – page 113
in the Climate Risk Policy.
• Regulatory requirements or enhancements needed are recorded through workplans
across various teams. The workplans are coordinated and monitored through various
working groups by having the relevant accountable executives participate in the
relevant forums.
Characterising climate- • We have identified seven Principle Risk Types (PRT) that are most materially Existing risk
related risks in the context impacted by potential climate risks and describe transmission channels for classification and
of traditional banking Climate Risk manifesting as financial and non-financial risk. climate-risk
industry risk categories transmission channels
– page 97
Overview of our
Climate Risk toolkit and
application – page 99
b) Describe the organisation’s processes for managing climate-related risks
Processes for managing • We manage Climate Risk according to the characteristics of these PRTs and are Mitigating
and mitigating risks embedding climate-risk considerations into the relevant frameworks and processes environmental and
as well as setting risk appetites for each. social risk – page 88
• Our Climate Risk Appetite Statement (RAS) is approved annually by the Board and Sustainable Finance
is supported by Board and Management Team level risk appetite metrics across mobilised – page 84
Credit – CCIB and CPBB, Reputational and Sustainability Risk (RSR), Traded Risk and
Country Risk.
• We regularly review the scope and coverage of our risk appetite metrics for enhanced
risk identification and management. Additional metrics to address our public targets
across key sectors and a stress loss metric built on scenario outcomes have been
identified and are being monitored for inclusion in risk appetite reporting in 2023.
• We have toolkits to quantitatively measure climate-related Physical and Transition
Risks to determine if they should be prioritised for risk management purposes.
c) Describe how processes for identifying, assessing and managing climate-related risks are integrated into the organisation’s overall risk
management
Integration into Enterprise • Climate Risk is recognised in the Group Enterprise Risk Management Framework Integrating climate-
Risk Management (ERMF) as an integrated risk type, i.e. it manifests through existing risk types and is related risks into overall
Framework managed in line with the impacted risk type frameworks. We manage Climate Risk risk management –
according to the characteristics of these PRTs and are embedding climate-risk page 100
considerations into the relevant frameworks and processes for each. In 2022, we have
continued to build Climate Risk into existing risk-management processes, focusing on
identifying, assessing, and monitoring across risk types.
Metrics and Targets
a) D isclose the metrics used by the organisation to assess climate-related risk and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk
management processes
Key metrics used to We disclose the following metrics in order to measure and manage climate-related risks Reducing our emissions
measure and manage and opportunities: – page 74
climate-related risks and GHG emissions: Overview of our
o m p e p tr o ic rt s u u n s it e i d es t o a s a w ss e e l s l a s s th e • Absolute Scope 1, Scope 2, and Scope 3; financed emissions intensity C ap lim pl a ic t a e t R io is n k – t o p o a l g k e it 9 a 9 nd
impact of (transition and Climate-related transition risks:
p ris h k y s s i o c n a l t ) h c e li i m r le a n te d - in re g la ted • Temperature Alignment score E ca xp rb o o s n u r s e e t c o t o h r i s g – h -
and other financial • Client-level Climate Risk assessment scores by region page 78
intermediary business • Projected potential average minor notch credit grade downgrade by 2050 Sustainable Finance
activities • Exposure to high-emitting sectors mobilised – page 84
• Increase in Counterparty Credit Risk (CCR) stress exposures from physical climate event Green and Social
Assets – page 86
Climate-related physical risks:
• Location-based hazard and risk scores
• Outstanding exposure at very high gross Physical Risk %
• Outstanding exposure subject to very high gross Flood Risk
• Market Risk stress loss from physical climate event
Climate-related opportunities:
• Green and social assets
• Sustainable finance income
Capital deployment:
• $300 billion mobilisation progress
Strategic report Sustainability
TCFD summary and alignment index continued
Recommendation Response Disclosure location
Climate-related incentive • Selected sustainability targets, including those with a climate change dimension, are Annual percentage
structures incorporated into our annual Group Scorecard which informs variable remuneration for change in
all colleagues under our Target Total Variable Compensation plan, including executive remuneration of
directors and Group Management Team. Sustainability has also been included in the directors and
2022–2024 Long-Term Incentive Plan performance measures. employees – page 210
Incentive Structure –
page 119
b) Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2 and, if appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions and the related risks
Our own operations • Despite only a 5 per cent reduction in our measured real estate, we reduced our Reducing our emissions
Scope 1 and 2 emissions by more than 42 per cent to 49,434 tonnes during 2022. – page 74
This has been possible through a consumption reduction of 3 per cent to 177.3 GWh
through energy-efficient investment, plus a 12 per cent increase in renewable energy
across the portfolio.
In our supply chain • In partnership with an independent climate consultancy, we continued improving the Reducing our emissions
accuracy of our methodology and estimated our supplier emissions. – page 74
• The process for Scope 3 upstream vendor emissions measurement is being embedded
into our wider annual reporting process and is expected to be executed in the first
quarter of each year based on the previous year’s vendor spend.
Measuring our financed • Analysing our exposure to high-carbon sectors (i.e. sectors that are responsible for the Supporting our
emissions majority of the GHG emissions in the atmosphere) is the starting point of our financed Corporate, Commercial
emission calculations. and Institutional
• We built on our progress in 2021 where we baselined our emissions for five of our Banking (CCIB) clients
high-emitting sectors namely Oil and gas, Power, Coal mining, Steel and other Metals with the transition –
and mining to include three additional transport sectors in 2022 being Automotive page 77
manufacturers, Aviation and Shipping.
c) Describe the targets used by the organisation to manage climate-related risks and opportunities and performance against targets
Details of targets set and • The targets we have set for climate-related risks are primarily our net zero, across Measurement and
whether they are absolute Scopes 1, 2 and specifically 3 financed emissions, starting in 2030, with thermal progress of our
or intensity based coal targets in the shorter term from 2024. Our progress is set out in the Financed financed emissions –
emission section. page 79
• On climate-related opportunities, we have a $1 billion of Sustainable Finance income
and $300 billion mobilisation of Sustainable Finance targets to 2025 and 2030
respectively.
• During the year, we revised the measurement of our Oil and gas sector emissions from
an income-based carbon intensity to absolute financed emissions to better reflect the
sector emission profile, effectively creating a carbon budget for the sector which is
intended to decrease over time.
• In 2022, we continued to expand the coverage of our financed emissions calculations
and this report announces three further sectoral targets covering transportation.
By 2030, we aim to reduce emissions in the transportation sector:
– 34% in aviation (production intensity)
– Reduce our alignment delta in shipping from +2.6% to 0%
– 49% in automotive manufacturers (production intensity).
A description of the • The methodologies used to calculate baseline emissions are set out in the Our Clients Measurement and
methodologies used – reducing our financed emissions section. progress of our
to calculate targets financed emissions –
and measures page 79
Other key performance • In 2021, we set our Sustainability Aspirations to include an interim target to aim to Sustainability
indicators used reach net zero in our operations by 2030 and in our financed emissions by 2050. Aspirations – page 493
In 2022, we updated our target for reaching net zero in our operations by 2030 and
brought it forward to 2025.
72 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 73
Strategic
report
Our net zero timeline
To help us remain on track, we have set short- to medium-term quantifiable targets to manage our
progress and disclose our data on an annual basis. Details of our targets in this area, as well as progress
towards these, are set out throughout this section of the report.
In our strategic business planning, we consider ‘short-term’ to be less than two years, ‘medium-term’ to be
two to five years and ‘long-term’ to be beyond this. For climate scenario analysis we can run 30-year
scenarios for both Physical and Transition Risk. Some elements of our Physical Risk scenario analysis can
also extend to 2100 (see page 92).
2021
Launched our pathway to net zero • 2022
by 2050, including interim targets and a
supporting methodology
• Developed 2030 emissions baseline and targets
Announced plans to mobilise $300 billion in • for Aviation, Shipping and Automotive
Sustainable Finance Manufacturers
Published a Transition Finance Framework • • Joined Partnership for Carbon Accounting
Financials (PCAF)
• Developed capabilities for and commenced
quarterly external reporting against key
sustainability measures
2023
Develop 2030 emissions baseline and targets for •
2024
Cement, Mortgages, Commercial Real Estate
(CRE) and Aluminium, planned to be
communicated in our 2023 TCFD report in • Develop 2030 emissions baseline and targets for
Q1 2024 Agriculture, planned to be communicated in our
2024 TCFD report in Q1 2025
Announce timeframe for enhanced Oil & Gas •
absolute emissions target by our 2023 AGM
Expand our coverage to facilitated emissions, •
aiming to adopt the PCAF standards (expected 2025
to be published in H1 2023)
• Aim to double our share of sustainable investing
assets under management and integrate ESG
considerations into our advisory activities in our
wealth management business
• Aim to be net zero in our own operations
(brought forward from 2030)
2030
Aim to only provide financial services to clients •
who are less than 5% dependant on revenue
from thermal coal
Aim to meet financed-emissions targets in our •
most carbon-intensive sectors
2032
• Targeted end date for legacy direct coal
financing globally
2050
Aim to become net zero in our financed emissions
Strategic report Sustainability
Reducing our emissions
Since 2018 we have been working on aligning Our operations –
our operational and financed emissions to the reducing our environmental footprint
Paris Agreement's goal of well below two
degrees Celsius of global warming by the end We are mindful of the direct environmental impact of our
branches and offices and are determined to reduce their
of the century.
impact.
We focus on three areas within our strategy
We have measured and reduced our GHG emissions since
to reduce direct and financed greenhouse
2008, and since 2018 we have been actively targeting a
gas (GHG) emissions: our operations, those
reduction in our Scope 1 and 2 emissions in line with a well-
associated with our supply chain (indirect below two degrees celsius scenario. In 2021, we enhanced
impacts in value chain) and our financed this ambition, setting out targets to achieve net zero in our
operations by 2025.
emissions associated with our clients.
Our approach is simple. We intend to optimise our office
and branch network, retiring unused and ineffective space
Emissions1
to retain a working environment in line with modern
Scope 1&2: SCB’s own emissions requirements for home- and hybrid-working solutions.
0.08% (0.05 MtCOe)2
2 In partnership with our long-term strategic real estate
S cope 3: Indirect impacts in suppliers such as CBRE and JLL, we are working to maximise
value chain Cat 1 to 14 efficiency while leveraging clean and renewable power
3.65% (2.22 MtCO 2 e)2 60.8 where appropriate, in line with our commitment to the global
S cope 3: CCIB Corporates corporate renewable energy initiative, RE100, and to help us
Financed Emissions meet our own challenging targets.
MtCOe
96.26% (58.50 MtCO 2 e) 2 Despite only a 5 per cent reduction in our measured real
estate, we reduced our Scope 1 and 2 emissions by more
than 42 per cent to 49,434 tonnes during 2022. This has been
possible through a consumption reduction of 3 per cent
Operations and Supply
Chain t
12
o
p
17
e
7
r
. 3
c e
G
n
W
t in
h
c
t
r
h
e
r
a
o
s
u
e
g
i
h
n
e
re
n
n
e
e
rg
w
y
a
-e
b
f
l
fi
e
c
e
ie
n
n
e
t
r g
in
y
v
(
e
b
s
e
tm
ing
en
t
t
h
,
r
p
o
l
u
u
g
s
h
a
direct power purchase agreements, green utilities and
Business travel renewable energy certificates) and across the portfolio.
Cooling
Employee travel While new ways of working have led to a direct reduction in
our property requirements and associated emissions, we
Electricity
recognise that these emissions have simply been shifted.
Waste management
Throughout 2022, we have begun measuring additional
Heating categories of Scope 3 emissions including waste, employee
Purchased goods commuting and downstream leased assets. See page 75.
and services
Read the principles and methodology for measuring our
environment data at sc.com/environmentcriteria
Automotive Agriculture For further details on our environmental performance see page 489
Manufacturers and our ESG data pack at sc.com/esgdatapack
Oil & Gas Aviation
Read the independent environmental assurance at
sc.com/environmentalassurance
Other Cement Shipping
Coal Residential
Mining Mortgages We are also committed to reducing waste. In 2022, we
Power Aluminium Steel reduced our overall waste by 37 per cent, and our waste
per employee by 39 per cent to 19.2kg, achieving our target
Commercial Other Metals
Real Estate and Mining to reduce waste to 40kg per employee per year three years
ahead of schedule. This was primarily due to new ways of
working reducing employee presence in our buildings.
Financed Emissions
I[[ mproving our
For more information on For more details on our
our own operations refer own financed emissions
to page 75 refer to page 76 office efficiency]]
We have created a rolling asset replacement strategy
1 Standard Chartered measures greenhouse gas emissions using the for lighting in our offices. We now aim to only install LED
Greenhouse Gas Protocol
and circadian lighting, and any new fit-out or project,
2 Source: The Group’s aviation portfolio which it leases to airlines has been
small churn-related changes or upgrades always include
added in our Supply Chain Scope 3 (Cat. 13 as per the GHG protocol)
improved lighting.
74 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 75
Strategic
report
Water availability is a growing challenge in many of our Simultaneously, for Purchased goods and services and Capital
markets. Although we did not face any issues sourcing goods categories, we plan to engage our suppliers (covering
potable water in 2022, we continue to take a responsible circa 67 per cent of spend) to set science-based targets in the
approach to managing water across the Group. next five years.
We continue to work towards our target to recycle 90 per cent In 2022, to build internal understanding of our supply chain
of our waste by 2025. We have commenced the True Zero sustainability aspirations and drive united engagement for
Waste programme across our top 20 buildings by size and our net zero goals, we delivered training and awareness
expect to see the first results next year. sessions which were attended by approximately 450
participants from across the organisation.
During 2023, we will continue to accelerate our True Zero
Waste certification programme across more offices.
This certifies 90 per cent of waste diverted from landfill
Scope of emissions 2022 (tCO2e) 2021 (tCO2e) 2020 (tCO2e)
Scope 1 direct
or incineration and will require further investment and
emissions
education in waste management and avoidance.
(combustion of fuel) 2,071 2,902 3,988
Additionally, we will certify more single-use-plastic free
Scope 2 energy
buildings and promote more sustainable practices.
indirect emissions
(purchase of
electricity) 47,363 82,761 113,870
Our suppliers – Total Scope 1 and 21 49,434 85,662 117,858
reducing Scope 3 upstream
Scope 3 other indirect
With approximately 11,700 suppliers, we recognise our emissions
contribution to climate impacts through the goods and
Purchased goods
services we procure and understand that severe weather and services (other)2 380,732 330,244 –
events could result in material disruptions to our supply chain
Purchased goods
that may potentially impact our ability to serve our clients.
and services (global
From 1 April 2022 all new and renewing material third-party data centres)3 706 43,132 29,562
corporate services arrangements in-scope for Business Capital goods2 34,496 47,217 –
Continuity Management controls are subject to climate risk Upstream
assessment as part of third-party continuity plans. transportation and
distribution2 20,300 20,949 –
Through our Supplier Charter, we encourage our suppliers to
Waste generated
support and promote standards in environmental protection
in operations4 498 – –
and to manage and mitigate environmental risks.
Business travel
In 2022, we continued to make progress against our supply (air travel) 39,107 3,654 33,930
chain sustainability agenda. We saw an approximately
Business travel
58 per cent decrease in our flight emissions in the period (miscellaneous
from October 2021 to September 2022, against our target to other than flights)2 2,654 4,994 –
achieve and maintain flight emissions at 28 per cent lower
Employee
than our October 2018 to September 2019 baseline, and commuting3 61,917 – –
continued to offset these.
Downstream leased
In partnership with an independent climate consultancy, we assets (corporate
continued improving the accuracy of our methodology and real estate)4 8,594 – –
estimated our supplier emissions. Due to a limited number Downstream leased
of suppliers able to report emission figures to the Group, our assets (leased
methodology relies primarily on emission factors combined aircraft)4 1,671,867 – –
with an increasing volume of data reported by suppliers via Investments2, 5 58,500,000 45,200,000 –
the CDP climate change survey and emission figures reported Total Scope 3
by suppliers to the Group. We expect that both supplier emissions 60,720,871 45,650,190 63,492
emission calculations and our methodology will continue
Total emissions 60,770,305 45,735,852 181,350
to evolve over time. Using these insights, we identified
and engaged our key highest-emitting suppliers to better 1 We use an independent third-party assurance provider to verify our
understand and align on sustainability actions, metrics greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. In 2022, our measured Scope 1 and Scope 2
emissions, as well as waste and water consumption, were assured by Global
and goals. Documentation Ltd, ensuring the accuracy and credibility of our reporting.
2 The reporting period for carbon emissions is 1 October to 30 September.
The process for Scope 3 upstream supplier emissions
This only differs for category 1: Purchased Goods, category 2: Capital
measurement has been developed and embedded into our Goods, category 4: Upstream Transportation and Distribution, Category 6:
wider annual reporting process, with emissions provided for Miscellaneous travel and category 15: Investments where the period 1 Jan
to 31 December on a one year lag is used.
Purchased goods and services, Capital Goods, Upstream
3 The decrease in emissions from data centres was due to the offset of REC's
transport and Other Business Travel. These emissions are (Renewable Energy Certificate) against the total energy consumption. REC's
based on the previous year's actual spend, hence a one year are a type of Energy Attribute Certificate that represents the environmental
attributes of the generation of a one-megawatt hour (MWh) of energy
time lag: 2022 emissions relate to 2021 expenditure. produced by renewable sources ie the proportion of power sourced from
a national grid that is produced using renewable energy sources.
Furthermore, we launched a global project to define
4 Emissions for Category 5: Waste generated in operations, Category 7:
strategies to address emissions related to Scope 3 Employee Commuting and Category 13: Downstream Leased Assets was
Categories 1 (Purchased goods and services), 2 (Capital measured and reported for the first time in 2022.
5 These are financed emissions of our CCIB lending portfolio.
goods), 4 (Upstream transportation and distribution) and
6 (Business travel). Our targets cover reducing our emissions For further details on our Scope 3 vendor emissions see
our ESG data pack at sc.com/esgdatapack
related to Upstream transportation and distribution and
Business travel by 28 per cent against 2019 levels by 2023. Read our Supplier Charter at sc.com/suppliercharter
Strategic report Sustainability
Our clients –
reducing our financed emissions
We aim to support our clients in their own transitions to net
zero and see our role in supporting this alignment to the Paris Calculating financed emissions
Agreement's goal as a critical part of our climate response PCAF define financed emissions as the GHG emissions
plans. We aim to become net zero in our financed emissions from loans and investments provided by financial
by 2050, with interim 2030 targets for our highest-emitting institutions to their clients i.e. the proportion of our
sectors. clients' emissions we finance. To calculate our baseline
In 2022, we made progress towards this goal, and set out projections, we measure three types of financed
to measure, manage and reduce operational and financed emissions using three methodologies:
emissions via the implementation of our net zero pathway. In • Revenue-based carbon intensity: a measurement of
2021, we announced that we expect all clients (beginning with the quantity of GHG emitted by our clients per USD of
those in high-carbon sectors) to have a strategy to transition their revenue.
to a low-carbon business model. Since then, we have focused
on assessing clients in sectors where we have set 2030 net • Absolute financed emissions: a measurement of our
zero targets (Oil and gas, Metals and mining and Power). We attributed share of clients’ GHG emissions.
have also developed an initial methodology for assessing the • Production-based intensity: a measurement of the
credibility of client transition plans. We expect this area to quantity of GHG emitted by our clients per USD of their
evolve, and will look to adapt our methodology accordingly. production capacity.
Our methodology draws on information gathered from our Our methodology is based on global standards, including
client Climate Risk Assessments (see page 88) and considers those set by the Science Based Target initiative (SBTi), the
the guidance on Credible Transition Plans by the Glasgow Net Zero Banking Alliance (NZBA) and PCAF.
Financial Alliance for Net Zero (GFANZ) and the UK’s
Transition Plan Taskforce. In 2022, we tracked the existence Client exposure Client
of a transition plan for our corporate clients, and by the end ( x )
emissions
Client EVIC
of 2023 intend to have a view of credibility of those transition Revenue
plans for our largest exposures. We acknowledge that based =
targeting net zero will not be a linear pathway, especially for intensity
a bank which operates primarily in the emerging markets Client exposure Client
( x )
and recognises its role in helping to support a just transition. Client EVIC revenues
As such, in the shorter term, our financed emissions may
increase as we focus on funding our clients' transition journeys
toward reaching net zero emissions. Absolute Client exposure Client
financed = ( x emissions )
emissions Client EVIC
Client exposure Client
( x )
emissions
Client EVIC
Production-
based =
intensity Client per unit of production
EVIC stands for economic value including cash and is
S[[ tandard Chartered
the sum of the client's debt plus equity. If the client is
listed, that equity is the client's market capitalisation.
joins PCAF]] The numerical value of the clients EVIC will impact
the measurement of all three financed emission
methodologies. If, for example, the market capitalisation
of a listed client increases (through the client's share price
During 2022 the Group joined the Partnership for Carbon
increasing), the financed emissions will decrease on an
Accounting Financials (PCAF). Joining PCAF will help us
to take a consistent approach to assessing and reporting absolute financed emission, revenue based intensity and
emissions for its financed and facilitated transactions. production based intensity basis.
PCAF is a global partnership of financial institutions Further, for revenue based intensity, when client
to develop and implement a harmonised approach revenues increase (for example, commodity based
for assessing and disclosing the greenhouse gas clients experiencing higher commodity prices) the
(GHG) emissions of their loans and investments and
revenue based emissions intensity will decrease.
is becoming the market standard approach.
It is noted that there is a one-year lag on data used for
PCAF has developed GHG accounting methodologies
financed emissions. This is a result of the time taken for
that can be applied by financial institutions who
have exposure to listed equity and corporate bonds, our clients to report their financial and carbon emission
business loans and unlisted equity, project finance, information. Therefore, the Group's baseline as released
mortgages, commercial real estate and motor in 2021 utilised the 2020 year-end balance sheet date for
vehicle loans. PCAF currently represents financial client exposures, financial and carbon information, and
institutions with total financial assets in lending the 2022 updated financed emissions utilises the 2021
and investments in excess of $40 trillion dollars. year-end balances. We still refer to these as the 2022
and 2021 updates.
76 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 77
Strategic
report
Exposure
Supporting our Corporate, Commercial The following section sets out our progress made against
and Institutional Banking (CCIB) clients with the transition these targets during 2022, and builds on this foundation with
In our net zero whitepaper, released in 2021, we provided the announcement of three further sectoral baselines and
details of our financed emissions for the 2021 year, using the targets being Automobile Manufacturers, Aviation, and
2020 balance sheet. Our first baseline emissions measured Shipping. With the addition of these further three sectors, we
45.2 MtCOe (covering 77 per cent of the CCIB exposure have set targets for eight sectors in total. The emissions of the
2
portfolio for which the Group could source financial CCIB lending book across all counterparties in all sectors is
information), and set out our approach to achieve emissions estimated to be 58.5MtCOe. These total emissions are where
2
reduction by 2030 in our most carbon-intensive sectors of: the Group is able to obtain client financial information, being
the clients' EVIC. In 2022, the Group was able to source client
• 63 per cent in Power (Scopes 1 and 2 intensity)
data for 87 per cent of the CCIB lending portfolio to calculate
• 33 per cent in Steel (Scopes 1 and 2 intensity) the 58.5MtCOe. Of these emissions, 61 per cent is due to the
2
emissions of the counterparties in the eight high-carbon
• 33 per cent in Other metals and mining (ex. Coal Mining)
sectors for which the Group has set targets. These eight
(Scopes 1 and 2 intensity)
sectors represent 14.4 per cent of the CCIB lending book as
• 30 per cent in Oil and Gas (Scopes 1, 2 and 3 intensity) of 30 September 2022.
• 85 per cent in Coal Mining (Scopes 1, 2 and 3 absolute) In 2023, we plan to add a further four sectors into our
analysis, and beyond that to incrementally improve the
portfolio coverage as market data on emissions becomes
more widely available. Analysing our exposure to high-carbon
sectors (i.e. sectors that are responsible for the majority of the
GHG emissions in the atmosphere) is the starting point of our
financed emission calculations. In order to identify which of
our lending is to high-carbon sectors, we use the Task Force
on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) sector
categorisation, namely: energy; transportation; materials
and buildings; and agriculture, food and forest products.
The most material sub-sectors to the Group for which
baselined targets have been set are presented below.
Percentage of financed emissions covered %
Included in analysis Emissions coverage
2021 2022 2023 2024 and later Completed Not completed
Coal
Mining
Steel
Remaining Other Metals
Sectors and Mining
Agriculture Oil & Gas
% 61
% Power
of financed
emissions
Commercial covered
Real Estate 39
%
Residential
Automotive
Mortgages (CPBB)
Manufacturers
Aluminium Shipping
Aviation
Cement
Strategic report Sustainability
High-carbon sectors as a % of total CCIB lending We have extended our financed emissions analysis and
disclosure on our exposure to high-carbon sectors.
Sectors are identified and grouped as per the International
Standard Industrial Classification (ISIC) system and exposure
Automotive Oil & Gas numbers have been updated to include all in-scope ISIC codes
Manufacturers used for target setting among the seven high-carbon sectors.2
14.4 The maximum exposures shown in the table include Loans
% Aviation Power and Advances to Customers at Amortised cost, Fair Value
through profit or loss, and committed facilities available as
per IFRS 9 – Financial Instruments in $million. Green and other
Coal Mining Shipping
sustainable finance loans which support the transition to the
net zero economy are also included. The full exposure does
Other Steel not provide an indication of how many clients have net zero
Metals and
pathways in alignment with our own, and hence can be
Mining
banked through the transition of their businesses from a
higher-carbon present to a lower-carbon future. As reporting
efforts harmonise around green, sustainable and transition
taxonomies, we will evolve our reporting accordingly.
Loans and advances and undrawn balances to high-carbon sectors ²
Loans and advances Undrawn commitments
(drawn funding) and financial guarantees
$m $m
Sector 20221 20213 20221 20213
Automotive manufacturers 3,439 3,168 3,036 3,675
Aviation 2,497 2,846 1,276 1,114
Coal mining 69 133 8 10
Steel 1,681 1,838 1,007 837
Other Metals and mining 2,847 2,021 3,237 3,729
Oil and gas 6,641 7,077 13,926 14,750
Power 4,918 4,916 3,843 5,594
Shipping 5,456 5,596 1,510 1,491
Total balance 27,548 27,595 27,843 31,200
Maturity and expected credit losses of exposure to high-carbon sectors²
20221 20221
$m Maturity buckets $m
Loans and
advances Less than More than 1 More than Expected
Sector (drawn funding) 1 year to 5 years 5 years credit loss
Automotive manufacturers 3,439 2,855 534 50 –
Aviation 2,497 120 916 1,461 65
Coal mining 69 5 31 32 12
Steel 1,681 1,456 216 8 38
Other Metals and mining 2,847 2,330 312 205 45
Oil and gas 6,641 2,506 2,203 1,931 276
Power 4,918 1,495 1,434 1,988 117
Shipping 5,456 801 2,988 1,668 51
Total balance 27,548 11,567 8,635 7,344 603
1 This is as at 30 September 2022
2 The ISIC codes used by the Group above are as follows:
Automotive manufacturers (Manufacture of motor vehicles and Motor Finance); Aviation (Passenger air transport), Coal (Coal Mining), Steel (Iron and Steel basis
Industries and casting of iron and steel), Other Metals and Mining (Iron Ore Mining, Gold and Precious Metals, Copper & Zinc, Stone quarrying clay and sand pits,
Mining & Quarrying NEC; Support activities for other mining and quarrying, Casting of non-ferrous metals, Aluminium, Non-ferrous metal basis industries, Metal
products services, Manufacture of fabricated metals); Oil & Gas (Extraction of Oil, Oil rig operators, Support activities for petroleum and natural gas extraction,
Extraction of natural gas, Petroleum refineries, Manufacture and repair of mining, Oilfield & gasfield and related machinery and equipment); Power (Electricity
generation and distribution, Water Supply & distribution, Collection of non-hazardous waste); Shipping (Sea and coastal freight water transport, Support services
to water transport/NEC, Sea and coastal passenger water transport, Gas Manufacture & distribution)
3 2021 balances are as at 31 December
78 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 79
Strategic
report
Measurement
Measurement and progress of our financed emissions: sectoral deep dives
Absolute Financed Intensity Financed
Emissions MtCOe Emissions kgCOe
2 2 Change YTD 2030
Sector 20221 20218 20221 20218 22 vs YTD 21 target Target based on
Standard Chartered Group 58.57 45.2
Oil and gas 10.2 13.7 2.8 3.0 -8.3% -30% Revenue Emissions Intensity
Power 6.3 7.7 2.1 3.7 -43.6% -63% Revenue Emissions Intensity
Coal mining 2.3 3.3 -30.3% -85% Absolute Emissions
Metals and mining 0.4 0.4 0.9 1.0 -7.4% -33% Revenue Emissions Intensity
Steel 2.7 2.7 1.9 2.2 -12.0% -33% Revenue Emissions Intensity
Transport 13.9 2.7 – – 415%
Auto Manufacturers² 4.3 160g COe/Vkm -49% Production Emissions intensity⁵
2
Aviation³ 2.2 1,152g COe/ Rtk NA -34% Production Emissions intensity⁵
2
Shipping⁴ 7.4 +2.6% delta 0% Production Emissions intensity⁵
Other6 22.7 14.7 NA
1 2022 financed emissions are calculated based on 31 December 2021 data • Financial volatility – offsetting the prior two factors,
2 Vkm means vehicle per km increases in commodity prices increased profitability and
3 Rtk means per revenue tonnes km
resulted in higher share prices in these sectors, both of which
4 An alignment delta is an asset by asset plot against a set curve, either below
(being negative which means less CO per asset than the curve) or above increased EVICs, therefore decreasing absolute financed
2
(being positive which means more CO per asset than the curve). In this emissions for the Group.
2
instance the assets are ships and how they plot against the International
Maritime Organisation curve Further, for revenue emissions intensity (as applicable to
5 Sector specific intensity being CO 2 per distance traveled the Oil and gas, Power, Steel and Other metals and mining
6 'Other' includes manufacturing, wholesale and retailers, commercial real
sectors), this increased profitability decreased revenue-based
estate, aluminium and cement sectors
7 The exposure to clients is from the Group’s systems, however, the ability to carbon intensity (as the ratio of emissions to revenue earned
find counterparty EVIC’s and carbon disclosed is evolving and currently relies decreased). In 2023, we will be moving to production-based
on third party inputs and individual searches for financial information.
intensity metrics for these sectors which will reduce the impact
EVIC information is usually found via external aggregators, internal risk
systems and individual financial information searches. For emissions, this is of market volatility on our emissions profile.
done through external aggregators and where not available; regression
analysis and proxy information is used We acknowledge that our ambition to achieve net zero in our
8 2021 financed emissions are calculated based on 31 December 2020 data financed emissions by 2050 will not be a linear decreasing
pathway given the above factors.
Standard Chartered Group total
Our total financed emissions in 2022 are 58.5 MtCOe, up Individual high-carbon sectors
2
from 45.2 MtCO 2 e in 2021. This represents an increase of We measured progress against our emission targets in three
29 per cent. This increase is not unexpected and reflects a forms: absolute financed emission (Coal mining and a
combination of: sector deep dives, which capture full sector baseline for Oil and gas), revenue-based carbon intensity
value chain emissions; methodological improvements based (Oil and gas, Power and Metals and mining), and production-
on evolving industry best practice; and expanded coverage of based intensity (Auto manufacturers, Aviation and Shipping).
our emissions footprint based on increasing data availability.
These factors contributing to the 2022 reported group • Oil and gas has shown movement in revenue-based
emissions figure are therefore not a reflection of an inherent intensity as well as the absolute financed emission baseline.
increase in our clients' underlying emissions footprints. There was a decrease in absolute emissions, due to
Over time, we will seek to capture and report on emissions increasing EVICs and a portion of the 2021 population
reductions versus those attributed to methodology changes (Gas-related ships) moving to the Shipping transport sector.
and expanded coverage of sector emissions. • Coal mining exposure decreased to less than $100 million;
• Expansion in scope – prior to conducting our sector deep this is a run-down book with no new coal mining loans
dives as articulated in our net zero pathway, we took a made in the year.
top-down corporate level approach in calculating the • Steel financed emissions remain widely flat across 2021–
baseline. In particular, for the transport sector, our corporate 2022, decarbonisation of steel will be a long-term journey
level approach accounted for only Scope 1 and 2 emissions with limited short-term impact.
(e.g. solely the emissions from their direct manufacturing
and administrative activities). Through the transport sector • Power on an economic intensity basis saw a significant
deep dives we were able to do a full mapping of the sector decrease, primarily attributed to macroeconomic factors
value chain from a bottom up perspective, which included of increased commodity prices passed onto customers
the underlying asset level emissions. Therefore, emissions with resulting higher revenues. The Power portfolio does
have been counted for each underlying vehicle produced, however have approximately 25 per cent of its exposure to
aircraft flown and ship sailed, in addition to the renewable energy counterparties, which is also bringing this
manufacturing and administrative activities. This intensity metric down.
significantly increased our baseline emissions in 2022 We continue to refine our approach to measuring production
from 2.7 to 13.9 MtCO 2 e. targets. In 2023, noting the shortcoming of economic intensity,
• Increased data coverage – we continue to improve our these sectors will be measured using production-based
data coverage. In 2022, our client coverage of financial intensity metrics (CO 2 per KWh or tonne of steel produced).
(EVIC) information increased YoY from 77 per cent to
87 per cent. This increased data availability also increased
our baseline emissions.
Strategic report Sustainability
Oil and gas Power Generation
The decarbonisation of this sector is central to global The Power sector sits at the forefront of the energy
efforts to reach net zero, and is particularly relevant transition, with many industries relying on electrification to
within the markets in which we operate as around half of achieve net zero by 2050. However, this will not be possible
the sector’s global emissions originate in Asia, Africa and without a sufficient supply of low-carbon electricity. The
the Middle East. Oil and gas represents the single biggest private sector is well-established as the leading source of
contributor to our total absolute financed emissions, finance for power generation in most economies around
representing 17 per cent of the total. the world.
Oil and gas value chain in scope Power Generation value chain in scope
Oil & Gas Service Other Generators Gas Renewables Power Other
Companies companies Oil & Gas Coal distributors utility
companies providers
Scope 1, 2
Scope 1, 2 and 3 Scope 1, 2 Scope 1, 2 Scope 1, 2 Scope 1, 2 Scope 1, 2
Our portfolio Our portfolio
Balance 2022 financed Balance 2022 carbon
$bn emissions Target Target type $bn intensity Target Target type
6.3 10.2 MtCOe –30% Revenue emission 4.0 2.07 KgCOe –63% Revenue emission
2 2
(2020–2030) intensity (2020–2030) intensity
Progress Progress
In our net zero whitepaper, we targeted an emissions We have set ourselves the target to reduce emissions in
reduction in the Oil and gas sector of 30 per cent (Scopes 1, the Power Generation sector by 63 per cent (Scopes 1 and
2 and 3 intensity) by 2030. 2 intensity) by 2030. In 2022, we achieved a 44 per cent
reduction, primarily driven by increases in commodity prices
During 2022, we revised the measurement of our Oil
which are passed onto customers by power producers,
and gas sector emissions from a revenue-based carbon
thereby increasing the revenue earned by the producer.
intensity to absolute financed emissions. This better reflects
the sector emission profile and provides alignment with Increases in the producer’s revenue and EVICs
the emerging consensus of peer banks as to the best way decreases our proportion of financed emissions, both
in which to measure and set targets for the sector. This on an absolute and economic intensity basis. Absolute
effectively creates a carbon budget which is intended reductions in emissions are therefore primarily because of
to decrease over time, which further helps meet the macroeconomic factors. As a caveat, the Group continues
expectations of our key stakeholders. Our new absolute to grow our financing provided to renewable power
baseline is 10.2MtCOe and we will disclose targets for this producers, which now represents approximately 25 per
2
baseline by the Group's 2023 Annual General Meeting. cent of the power portfolio and contributes towards this
intensity decrease.
In 2022, using the existing intensity target, we achieved
an 8 per cent reduction year-on-year. This reduction was
primarily due to macroeconomic factors, including an
increase in clients’ underlying corporate value (EVIC)
due to increases in commodity prices linked to the war
in Ukraine and rising energy prices. This has resulted in a
proportionate reduction in our share of financed emission
contributions.
Calculation methodology/Science-based scenario selected Calculation methodology
For the Oil and gas sector, our calculations are based on Scope 1 is the most material component of the Power
the International Energy Agency (IEA) Net Zero Emission sector’s emissions. By contrast, Scope 2 is insignificant and
by 2050 (NZE) and the Current Policies Scenario (CPS). relates to energy used to operate power plants which
cannot be isolated from the overall industry electricity
In the NZE scenario, the share of fossil fuels in global energy
consumption. Scope 3 is not included as there is no
falls from around 80 per cent in 2020 to 20 per cent in 2050,
agreed approach to its quantification in this sector.
and the residual usage of fossil fuels by 2050 is primarily
related to goods where carbon is embedded (e.g. plastics), Changes in baseline method
or production facilities fitted with CCUS (Carbon capture, We intend to update our measurement basis of the
utilisation and storage). Any remaining usage of fossil power sector from a revenue-based intensity measure to
fuels is limited to sectors where low-emissions technology a production-based measure in 2023. We believe this will
options are scarce. Scope 2 emissions are projected using the provide a more accurate measure of our counterparty CO
2
power generation emissions pathway. Scope 3 downstream emissions, which will be per unit of power produced (KWh).
emissions make up around 90 per cent of total emissions in
the Oil and gas sector and have been calculated assuming
that all fuel is burnt and there is no impact from CCUS.
Changes in baseline method
For 2022, we have updated the Oil and gas sector emission
measurement from revenue-based carbon intensity to absolute
financed emission to better reflect sector emission profile.
80 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 81
Strategic
report
Metals and mining Thermal coal
The Metals and Mining sector provides raw W e will only provide financial services
materials that support much of the global economy. The to clients who:
sector contributes around 12 per cent of global CO emissions
2
(Scope 1 and 2), of which Asia, Africa and the Middle East
By 2024
contribute more than 75 per cent.
Our net zero whitepaper detailed our targets to achieve an are less than 80% dependent on thermal coal
emissions reduction of 33 per cent for Steel (Scopes 1 and 2 (based on % revenue)
intensity); 33 per cent for Other Metals and Mining (ex. Coal
mining) (Scopes 1 and 2 intensity); and 85 per cent for Coal By 2025
mining (Scopes 1, 2 and 3 absolute).
are less than 60% dependent on thermal coal
Metals and mining value chain in scope
(based on % revenue)
Coal Steel Other metals
mining production By 2027
are less than 40% dependent on thermal coal
Scope
(based on % revenue)
1, 2 and 3 Scope 1, 2 Scope 1, 2
Our portfolio By 2030
2022 are less than 5% dependent on thermal coal
Balance financed (based on % revenue)
Sector $bn emissions Target Target type
Steel 1.4 1.9 -33% Revenue
emissions intensity
Progress
Other 0.7 0.9 -33% Revenue
In October 2021, we enhanced our Power Generation
Metals and emissions intensity
and Extractive Industries Position Statements to test our
Mining
clients’ dependency on thermal coal at client entity level
Coal <0.1 2.3 -85% Absolute financed
and at group level (tested at group level previously). Since
Mining emission
then, we identified 37 client entities that derive 100% of
Progress
their revenue from thermal coal. Of these, 14 entities have
In 2022, we achieved a 30 per cent reduction in the been fully exited in 2022 with the remainder in progress,
absolute emissions associated with our Coal mining subject to contractual commitments.
portfolio, from 3.3 to 2.3 MtCOe. This has been achieved
by allowing the periodic run-do 2 wn of our loan book in All our criteria on thermal coal is tested on an annual
this sector. basis via our Environmental and Social Risk Assessments.
Where a client triggers a threshold but approaches
For Steel and Other Metals and Mining, we achieved a us to provide Transition Finance we will consider our
11 per cent reduction in the revenue intensity target. This involvement on a case-by-case basis, including instances
decrease was primarily due to increases in commodity where a client is reducing greenhouse gas emissions
prices reducing our proportion of the client’s emissions. through the early retirement of coal power assets.
Price increases resulted in an increase in client revenue
which therefore reduced our share of emissions.
Expanding our financed emissions coverage
Calculation methodology
In line with our aim to measure, manage and reduce our
Mining projections
financed emissions, in 2022, we continued to expand the
We have used a Baringa scenario to calculate Scope 1 emissions
from coal mining. The Power sector has been followed for Scope coverage of our calculations and are pleased to announce
2 emissions and Scope 3 emissions have been based on coal three further sectoral targets covering transportation.
production adapted from the IEA’s Net Zero Emissions scenario.
By 2030, we aim to reduce emissions in the transportation
Steel producer projections sector:
Emissions for the steel sector are often quoted or published
in a way that partially includes Scope 2 and/or Scope 3. In our • 34 per cent in Aviation (production intensity)²
methodology, we differentiate Scope 1 from Scopes 2 and 3 to
• Reduce our alignment delta in Shipping from +2.6 per cent
support clearer, more precise calculations. Scope 3 emissions
to 0 per cent1
are not currently calculated due to limited data availability;
however, we continue to engage our clients and standard • 49 per cent in Automotive manufacturers (production
setters to develop a suitable approach to calculating Scope 3 intensity)²
emissions for steel.
Changes in baseline method
We intend to update our measurement basis of the Metals
and mining sector from revenue-based intensity measures to a
production-based measure in 2023. We believe this will provide
a more accurate measure of our counterparty CO emissions
2
which will be provided by unit of metal produced (e.g. tonne
of steel).
1 Alignment with the International Maritime Organisation (IMO) emissions
trajectory curve
2 Sector specific intensity being CO per Km distance traveled
2
Strategic report Sustainability
Aviation Shipping
The aviation sector includes all activities related to The shipping sector consists of moving goods or
domestic and international air travel. It is responsible for passengers by water and is responsible for 2.9 per cent of
over 2 per cent of global energy-related CO emissions, global emissions.1
2
as per the IEA Tracking report 2022.
Our shipping portfolio has a baseline ‘alignment delta’ of
Our 2022 portfolio emissions baseline is 1152 gCOe/Rtk +2.6 per cent in 2022. Achieving the current International
2
(revenue tonne kilometre). Reaching net zero in this sector Maritime Organisation (IMO) target of zero delta is
will be challenging; however, we believe we can make feasible and future regulations are likely to drive the
progress towards net zero by leveraging new fleet industry to net zero. Key levers for the sector include:
technology, sustainable aviation fuels (SAF) and engaging
• Support transition through investment in retrofit,
ambitious counterparties.
alternative fuels and greener vessels (e.g. young and
We have set ourselves the target to achieve a 34 per cent dual fuel vessels).
reduction in production intensity², from our baseline.
• Deepen relationships with ambitious counterparties
and engage others.
Alignment delta
Emission intensity (gCOe/RTK) (calculated against current IMO trajectory)
2
1,450 35%
1,400 1,433 30%
1,350
1,300 Emissions 25%
1,250 1,222 r r e e q d u u ir c e t d io t n o 20%
1,200
meet target 15%
1,150
1,100 1,152 10%
1,050
5% 2.6%
1,000
950 -34% 0 0%
2021 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 2030
900 -5%
850
800 -10% Fully a a c l h ig ie n v in in g g t 0 o % IM d O e l t t r a a a je li c g t n o m ry e m n e t ans
750 Baseline -760 -15%
700 Momentum case (aggressive)
Momentum case (conservative) -20%
650 Net Zero reference scenario (MPP Prudence) SCB 2021 Baseline
600 -25% Momentum based on IMO compliance
19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 2030
Calculation methodology Calculation methodology
The emissions are calculated based on Mission Possible Shipping emissions are calculated by counting fuel oil burn for
Partnership (MPP) Prudence (1.5C scenario) by counting each ship to which asset-backed finance has been provided.
aviation fuel burn by each aircraft to which asset-backed
Each owner or lessee is required to report to a regulator the
finance has been provided. The calculation uses a well-to-wake
distance its ships have travelled during the year, as well as fuel
formula which includes all emissions from the point of oil
consumed per vessel. Some vessels consume more energy
extraction to being burnt by the aircraft engines. Therefore,
based on their type of cargo.
Scopes 1, 2 (for the corporate) and 3 (emissions for each
aircraft) are included for each counterparty funded. IMO conversion factors are used to convert fuel burnt to CO
2
emissions, with these emissions divided by distance travelled
For each aircraft, we receive total km travelled, estimate total
and Dead Weight Tonnage (the loaded weight of a ship) to
fuel burnt on a well-to-wake basis (based on total distance
provide the gCOe/Vkm (vehicle kilometre).
travel and aircraft engine type) and add onto this a load 2
(weight) factor of specific aircraft to calculate Revenue Tonnes The IMO also has a 2050 trajectory. This is not yet 1.5 degree
per Kilometre. compliant, however the Poseidon Principles, which are shipping
specific, requires that banks measure and report their
‘alignment delta’ and provide a trajectory for each type of
vessel in a different weight category to that trajectory.
1 IMO, 2020. Fourth IMO GHG Study. https://www.imo.org/en/OurWork/Environment/Pages/Fourth-IMO-Greenhouse-Gas-Study-2020.aspx
2 Sector specific intensity being CO2 per Km distance travelled
82 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 83
Strategic
report
Automotive manufacturers Emission intensity (gCOe/vkm)
2
Automotive manufacturers includes industries
associated with the production, wholesaling, retailing and 210
200
maintenance of motor vehicles. The sector is responsible Emissions
190
reduction
for 17 per cent of global emissions. 180 required to
Our portfolio emissions baseline was 160 gCOe/Vkm in 1 1 6 70 0 171 meet target
2 150 165 160
2022. A focus on financing the growth of the electric vehicle
140
industry is key to success in this sector. 130
120 49%
We have set ourselves the target to achieve a 49 per cent 110
reduction in production intensity,1 from our baseline. 100
90
80
Calculation methodology 70 82
There is currently no automotive sector-specific target. Therefore, 60
the target is based upon the IEA net zero 1.5C scenario. 50
40
The total emissions calculated are the Scope 1 and 2 emissions 30 Baseline (Historic and current, as at 2021)
of the original equipment manufacturers (OEM), being the 20
10 Net zero reference scenario (IEA NZE – rebaselined1)
manufacturing carbon cost)+ Scope 3, being the lifetime tailpipe
0
emissions x vehicles produced + OEM emissions from supply chain. 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 2030
This is divided by the total kilometres travelled of vehicles 1. Augmented to be new light duty vehicles only, CO to COe, scope 3 TTW to scope 1-3
produced to calculate gCOe/Vkm. excl. WTT 2 2
2
What comes next
As a member of the NZBA, we are committed to measure and set targets against all our
high-carbon sectors within three years.
Enhancements: Targets to be set in the future Coal
Mining
Steel
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2
Activity 2023 2023 2023 2023 2024 2024 Remaining Other Metals
Sectors and Mining
Aluminium Data
collection
Agriculture Oil & Gas
Cement Data
collection 61%
Power
Mortgage (CPBB)
Commercial
Commercial Data
Real Estate 39%
Real Estate collection Residential Automotive
Mortgages (CPBB) Manufacturers
Agriculture
Aluminium Shipping
Remaining Sectors Aviation
Cement
Enhancements to existing targets
We have made, or will be making, the following changes to the way we set targets. This is to better reflect our progress
against reductions without these being impacted by changes in commodity prices influencing revenue intensities.
Oil & Gas Metals & Mining Power
2023 2023 22002233
Revenue Absolute Revenue Production Revenue Production
intensity emissions intensity intensity intensity intensity
$ $ $
CPBB mortgage emissions
Within our CPBB segment, we set a target to measure and report mortgage emissions with a view to setting targets by
December 2023. During 2022 we completed baseline emissions measurement for Singapore, Hong Kong and Korea, covering
more than 80 per cent of the consumer mortgage portfolio.
1 Sector specific intensity being CO per Km distance travelled
2
Strategic report Sustainability
Catalysing finance
and partnerships for transition
In recent years, sustainability has moved Sustainable Finance mobilised¹
from a predominantly risk-based initiative
to become a value driver for many banks as 2021 2022 2021–2030
they seek opportunities to mitigage climate $24.6bn $23.4bn $300bn
change and its effects, and tackle social
Cumulative
issues through the provision of finance.
2022 2021 progress
Product $mn $mn $m
Our Opportunity 2030 report (www.sc.com/opportunity2030, Balance-sheet related
published in 2020) identified a $10 trillion investment transactions provided²
opportunity in contributing to the SDGs, including clean
Green/Transition Project Export
energy. It is this opportunity which we are targetting through Finance (PEF) lending 985 1,647 2,632
our low-carbon products and services.
Social/Sustainable PEF lending 872 1,290 2,162
With our strong emerging markets footprint, we recognise the Financing Solution (FS) and
role we have to play in facilitating a just transition, directing Leveraged and Acquisition
capital and specialised support to the regions that need it Finance (LAF) lending 2,599 2,427 5,026
most to support sustainable economic growth. More than Sustainable linked loans (SLL)³ 5,201 8,544 13,745
90 per cent of our sustainable financing is directed at Transition finance 144 144
communities within the Asia, Africa and the Middle East Green mortgages⁴ 3,500 3,500
region (see sc.com/SFImpactReport for more detail).
Business banking Small and
We have focused on strengthening our capabilities in Medium Enterprise (SME)
lending⁵ 535 499 1,034
transition finance throughout 2022, including deploying a
dedicated Transition Acceleration Team within the CSO Micro finance 778 618 1,396
organisation to support clients in high-carbon sectors. This Capital Market/Advisory⁶
team includes specialists with industry knowledge to advise Green/Transition bonds 2,899 3,961 6,860
our clients in their individual sustainable finance journeys. Social/Sustainable bonds 3,593 4,688 8,281
Mergers & Acquisition (M&A)/
We have set ourselves targets to
Advisory⁷ 2,279 905 3,184
achieve Sustainable Finance income Total sustainable finance
mobilised8 23,385 24,578 47,964
of $1 billion by 2025, and mobilise
$300 billion of Sustainable Finance Of the above
CCIB 18,572 23,461
between 2021 and 2030.
CPBB 4,813 1,117
23,385 24,578
We have set ourselves a target to mobilise $300 billion of
Sustainable Finance by 2030. This includes the facilitation 3 SLLs are measured as the committed/underwritten amount as provided to
of green and social bond raising, provision of funding the counterparty. SLLs provide funding to counterparties with KPIs linked to
either green or social targets, and if those targets are met the interest rate
commitments to green and social causes as outlined below, charged is reduced by a certain percent and increases if the targets are not
advisory services to support our clients on their own journeys met. SLLs are not specific use of proceed instruments and the funding raised
may not be used for green and/or social purposes but rather for general
to net zero and facilitation of Sustainability Linked Loans.
business purposes.
In 2022, we mobilised $23.4 billion through our sustainable 4 Green mortgages are lending from Consumer, Private and Business Banking
(CPBB) that meets a specific energy rating. During the year, these mortgages
financing activities, bringing our cumulative sustainable
were reviewed and identified by CPBB as meeting the requirements of the
finance total towards this target to $48 billion since 2021. Group’s Green and Sustainable Product framework.
This target update covers the time period from 1 January 5 Business banking; SME and Microfinance lending which is the provision of
2021 to 30 September 2022. Note the decline in our capital finance to the Development Assistance Committee (DAC) lower- and
middle-lower-income countries as per the Organisation for Economic
markets activity is consistent with the overall market for Co-operation and Development (OECD). The inclusion of business banking
green, social and sustainable issuances in 2022. Further is linked to the Access to Finance sub-theme within the Group's Green and
Sustainable Product Framework incorporating Employment generation, and
our Project Export Finance (PEF) portfolio was impacted
programmes designed to prevent and/or alleviate unemployment, including
by supply chain issues and market sentiment. through the potential effect of SME financing and microfinance. With the
inclusion of business banking, the Entrepreneur (Lending to SMEs and
Microfinance) aspirations would be double counted and these aspirations
have therefore been retired.
1 M obilisation of Sustainable Finance is defined as any investment or financial
service provided to clients which supports: (i) the preservation, and/or 6 Capital market bonds are measured by the proportional bookrunner share
improvement of biodiversity, nature or the environment; (ii) the long-term of facilitated activities as determined by third-party league table rankings
avoidance/decrease of CO emissions, including the alignment of client’s based on the level of services provided.
2
business and operations with a 1.5 degree trajectory (known as transition 7 M&A/Advisory represents sole financial adviser, measured by the total deal
finance); and (iii) a social purpose. size divided by the number of advisers on the deal.
2 Lending transactions are measured as per the loan commitment/ 8 Mobilised $23.4bn of Sustainable Finance is for YTD Sept 2022 and $48bn
underwritten amount provided to the counterparty. This lending meets the delivered between 2021-2022 includes full year 2021 and YTD Sept 2022.
requirements of the Group’s Green and Sustainable Product Framework.
84 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 85
Strategic
report
In pursuit of this, throughout 2022 we continued to expand In 2022, we reported $0.5 billion Sustainable Finance related
and develop our suite of sustainable products in line with our income against this target, and increased our Sustainable
Sustainable Finance product frameworks. These frameworks, Finance asset base by 45 per cent to $13.5 billion between July
developed in collaboration with Sustainalytics, a leading 2021 and September 2022. This increase was largely due to the
provider of ESG and corporate governance research, are identification and tagging of $3.8 billion in Green Mortgages,
reviewed annually. primarily within the Hong Kong market.
Following the launch of our new Transition Finance Framework The majority of our Sustainable Finance asset base
in 2021, we updated our Green and Sustainable Product ($10.2 billion of the $13.5 billion) has been extended to a
Framework and expanded the list of eligible activities. variety of green projects which help lower carbon emissions,
such as renewable energy projects, commercial real estate
In CCIB, new product launches included Sustainable Fiduciary
and funding for the development of rail projects.
Deposits, sustainability-linked sale and leaseback for aviation
finance, and ESG structured products with rates underlying. Our social lending makes up the remaining $3.3 billion of
our total Sustainable Finance asset pool and encompasses
Within CPBB, we connected retail clients with access to
categories such as healthcare, education and access
sustainable finance offerings, launching new products
to finance.
including structured notes, sustainable deposits and Green
Mortgages. Throughout 2022, we increased the number of
markets where we offer Green Mortgages to six, through
successful product launches in Vietnam, South Korea and
Malaysia. Our Sustainable Finance Frameworks
In total, we now have 31 sustainable finance products
Our Green and Sustainable Product Framework
spanning both our CCIB and CPBB client segments. By
governs our Sustainable Deposits products and suite
reviewing the income potential from this growing suite of
of Sustainable Trade Products, and sets out what
Sustainable Finance products and services, alongside our
qualifies as ‘green’, ‘social’ or ‘sustainable’.
client base and the estimated scale of the opportunity, we
believe that we are on track towards our target of achieving The Sustainability Bond Framework governs our debt
$1 billion of Sustainable Finance income1 by 2025. products, providing transparency and guidance on the
use of proceeds and the impact of the green, social and
sustainable bonds issued by the Group.
We have outlined our approach to defining Transition
Finance in our Transition Finance Framework4. This
Framework is informed by the IEA NZE 2050 scenario.
Sustainable Finance income
Product1 ($m) 20223,4 2021 YOY2
Transaction Banking 80 32 150%
Trade & Working capital 60 25 140%
Cash Management 20 7 186%
Financial Markets 326 241 35%
Macro Trading 54 21 157%
Credit Markets 268 217 24%
Financing & Securities Services 4 3 33%
Lending & Portfolio Management 102 88 16%
508 361 41%
1 SF income is defined as a portion of the Groups income, generated by products and services as approved by the Sustainable Finance Governance Committee.
This includes, interest and margin earned on assets as disclosured in the Green and Sustainable assets, and fees from advisory and hedging activities for clients'
ESG products.
2 YoY = year-on-year variance which is better/(worse) comparing 2022 to 2021.
3 CPBB income will be added to this product suite in subsequent reporting periods.
4 Our Transition Finance Framework can be found at: https://av.sc.com/corp-en/content/docs/Standard-Chartered-Bank-Transition-Finance-Framework.pdf.
Strategic report Sustainability
Green Assets1
Sept'22 June'22 June'21
Theme ($m) $m $m $m SDG
Clean Transport 541 532 527
Energy Efficiency 507 164 –
Manufacture of components for renewable energy technology 393 42 –
Energy-efficiency technology 84 122 –
Transport 30 – –
Green Building 7,014 6,326 3,436
Green Building 3,216 2,826 3,436
Mortgage Portfolio HK 3,785 3,491
Mortgage Portfolio SG 13 8
Pollution Prevention and Control 102 110 –
Renewable Energy 2,122 2,425 1,526
Grid expansion 59 63 104
Hybrid Wind & Solar 154 237 174
Hydropower 25 27 20
Manufacture of components for renewable energy technology 274 450 481
Solar 785 976 269
Waste to Energy 111 94 51
Wind 714 577 414
Sustainable Water and Wastewater Management 10 29 13
10,295 9,585 5,502
Social Assets1
Sept'22 June'22 June'21
Theme ($m) $m $m $m SDG
Access to Water 42 36 32
COVID-19 39 37 197
Critical Care Equipment 21 4
Healthcare Facilities 3 15
Hygiene Products 6 9 197
Pharma and Medical Goods 4 4
Protective Equipment 4 4
Healthcare infrastructure 105 152 140
Hospital 101 147
140
Hospital Equipment 4 5
Road Infrastructure 57 46 105
Access to Finance 2,930 3,013 3,122
Business Banking 2,587 2,640 2,618
Micro Finance 341 373 465
Fund finance – – 165
SME loans 2 – –
3,173 3,284 3,760
Total Sustainable Finance Assets 13,468 12,869 9,262
Sustainable liabilities1
Sept'22 June'22 June'21
$m $m $m
Total bond issuances 2,083 1,983 1,095
Total sustainable deposits (CCIB) 3,154 3,056 1,943
Total sustainable CASA (CCIB) 335 182 –
Total sustainable CASA and deposits (CPBB) 217 118 10
5,789 5,339 3,048
1 Amounts included in the table are as at September 2022, June 2022 and June 2021 from left to right and have been taken from the Sustainable Finance Impact
Report (sc.com/SFImpactreport). September 2022 has been prepared under the same basis as the Impact Report and reviewed by Sustainalytics.
See sc.com/SFimpactreport for more highlights from our Sustainable Finance portfolio in 2022
86 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 87
Strategic
report
A shared ambition – working in partnership The Group participates in various industry initiatives, forums
We have identified several opportunities for the Group to and roundtables, including the Climate Financial Risk Forum
play an active role in shaping global standards ranging from (CFRF) and Global Association of Risk Professionals (GARP)
net zero to carbon markets. Along these lines, we are actively roundtable, to ensure we benchmark our risk management
involved in the leadership of several standard-setting or capabilities and stay abreast of changes.
standard-influencing efforts.
Similarly, we are engaged at local and regional levels to share
For instance, we are active participants of the Glasgow insights, comment on regulatory consultations, and better
Financial Alliance for Net Zero (GFANZ) Principles Group, understand the regulatory landscape and practices across
an ambitious programme to generate the commitment, our footprint.
investment and alignment needed to drive forward the
transition to net zero. Together with the CEO of Macquarie Investing in Climate Research
Group, our CEO is the Co-Chair of the GFANZ Working Group Our four-year partnership with Imperial College London
on Capital Mobilisation to Emerging Markets and Developing covers long-term research on Climate Risk, advisory on
Economies, and throughout 2022, our Group Head, Conduct shorter-term, internally focused projects to enhance Climate
and Financial Crime and Compliance has chaired the Net Zero Risk capabilities and training of our colleagues, Management
Banking Alliance (NZBA) – the industry-led banking element Team and Board.
of GFANZ.
In 2022, we sponsored a research project on ‘Investing in
Our Group Chairman has co-chaired the United Nations’ Nature to Tackle Biodiversity Loss and Enhance Food Security’,
Global Investors for Sustainable Development (GISD) Alliance, which explored the risks and opportunities facing the global
which has set ambitious objectives to scale up long-term agricultural sector from climate change.
finance and investment in sustainable development; and
• Part 1 expanded on the known risks of climate change on
our Global Head, Sustainable Finance has continued to hold
the agriculture sector by examining the failings of major
the position of Chair of the Equator Principles Association. In
climate models, as well as the immediacy of the significant
2023, we intend to support the Equator Principles Steering
impacts of climate change on the agriculture sector.
Committee as our term as Chair comes to an end. We are also
joining the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil as a member • Part 2 explored the potential for nature-based solutions to
of the Board of Governors. tackle the interlinkages between agriculture, land-use, and
climate change.
In addition, we are members of the United Nations
Environment Programme Finance Initiative and the Climate • Part 3 focused on the financial opportunities surrounding
Bonds Initiative, as well as one of the initial members of the natural assets and sustainable agriculture.
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
In addition, we worked with Imperial College London on three
and signatories of the Poseidon Principles, a global framework
advisory projects during 2022, to develop a methodology
for assessing and disclosing the climate alignment of
to assess the impact of Climate Risk on sovereign ratings;
financial institutions’ shipping portfolios.Our Global Head of
develop Physical Risk report cards for sovereigns; and enhance
Sustainability Strategy and Net Zero represents the Group on
the energy consumption calculation methodology and
SBTi's Financial Net-Zero Expert Advisory Group (EAG).
emission factor database for mortgage portfolios in our
Our Head of Carbon Markets Development is a Board key markets.
member of the Integrity Council for the Voluntary Carbon
Markets (IC-VCM), which is focused on developing a high-
quality international carbon market. The IC-VCM carried out
a consultation on its Core Carbon Principles over the summer,
receiving over 350 responses and 5,000 individual comments.
Our Group CEO sits on the Distinguished Advisory Group of
the IC-VCM and will aim to be involved in the development
and trading of carbon markets around the world.
Meanwhile, we increased our representation at COP27 and
the G20 and were actively involved in the launch of several
groundbreaking initiatives on the margins of each; these
include the launch of the Africa Carbon Markets Initiative
(ACMI) and Egypt's Nexus for Water, Food & Energy (NWFE)
at COP27, the $20 billion commitment to advance Indonesia's
Just Energy Transition Partnership (JETP) at the G20, and the
$15.5 billion commitment to the Vietnam JETP.
Strategic report Sustainability
Mitigating Environmental
and Social Risk
While transitioning to a net zero economy Group Climate Risk Appetite Statement
creates clear opportunity, it also comes with risk.
“ The Group aims to measure
But before we can manage the risk, first we must
be able to identify, assess its size and monitor it. and manage financial
In the front line, our Environmental and Social Risk and non-financial risks
Management team within the Chief Sustainability Office
aims to drive growth while managing the environmental from climate change,
and social (E&S) risks associated with financing related to
and reduce the emissions
our CCIB clients. Our approach is embedded directly into our
credit approval process and supports us to work with our
related to our own activities
stakeholders to identify, manage, mitigate and monitor the
potential impacts that stem from our financing decisions.
and those related to the
Our Position Statements, approved by the Group
Responsibility and Reputational Risk Committee (GRRRC), financing of clients in order
outline the standards we apply to assess whether to provide
financial services to our clients, and help us to identify and to support alignment with
assess E&S risks related to our CCIB clients.
the Paris Agreement”
We use these statements – which draw on International
Finance Corporation (IFC) Performance Standards, the
Equator Principles (EP) and global best practice – to assess
whether to provide financial services to clients operating
in sensitive (including high-carbon) business sectors.
In addition, we have specific guidance for clients operating
in sectors with a high potential environmental or social We recognise how important it is to get this right, so in
impact. Our list of prohibited activities can be found at support of our Sustainability Aspirations, we updated our
sc.com/prohibitedactivities. E&S Risk Management Framework based on our 2021
Position Statement refresh, and we expanded our capacity,
In 2022, we reviewed 1,170 clients and 550 transactions that
establishing a team within our Global Business Service centre
presented potential E&S risks. If we find a material E&S issue,
in Warsaw to conduct enhanced E&S due diligence on clients.
we take steps to proactively engage the client to mitigate
In addition, all relationship managers and credit officers are
identified risks and impacts, and support and guide our clients
offered training in assessing E&S risk, as well as having access
to improve their E&S performance over time.
to detailed online resources. 4,944 colleagues received E&S
In relation to climate, we encourage all clients in the Power related training in 2022.
generation, Metals and mining, and Oil and gas sectors to
In 2022, we prioritised our approach to biodiversity by
have a strategy to transition their business, in line with the
undertaking a pilot biodiversity risk assessment. This included
goals of the Paris Agreement. We review a client’s approach
a loan book analysis to identify impacts and dependencies
to transition using the output from our client Climate Risk
from biodiversity-related risks at a sector, country and
assessments. In particular, we utilise a client’s Transition Risk
financial services level. We are continuing to develop
mitigation score, which considers both quantitative inputs
our approach to biodiversity, expanding on the review
(e.g. emissions measurement data and reduction targets),
conducted this year to gain a clearer view of the biodiversity
and qualitative overlays through direct client conversations
risk associated with the Group’s activities.
to assess management focus and commitment.
In 2023, we plan to update our Position Statements covering
We aim to support and guide our clients to a low-carbon
all sensitive sectors, with the requirements to become
pathway and offer them sustainable financing as the main
effective the following year.
levers to help us achieve our net zero targets. We will also be
assessing our exposure to emissions-intensive clients and/or Read more about our Position Statements at
assets and will seek to replace these over time by adding new sc.com/positionstatements
low-carbon-intensity clients and/or assets to our portfolio. Read more about our prohibited activities at
sc.com/prohibitedactivities
This does not mean walking away from our existing clients,
but instead working with them to finance investment in Read more about our reporting against the Equator Principles at
sc.com/equatorprinciples
low-carbon methods and technologies, particularly across
Asia, Africa and the Middle East where investment could have
the biggest impact. However, for clients who do not align with
our Position Statements, we may look to withdraw financial
services and exit the relationship if we cannot work with them
to align over time.
88 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 89
Strategic
report
Climate Risk appetite metrics
Risk Type Metrics Reported Climate Risks Reported
Credit Risk – CPBB Concentration of consumer mortgage Physical risks: flood risk
exposure with high gross physical (flood) risk
across the Group’s seven key markets
Credit Risk – CCIB Net nominal exposure concentration to clients with Physical Risk and Transition Risk
High Transition and Physical Risk, and Low Readiness
Traded Risk Climate risk is incorporated within Traded Risk Stress Physical Risk
Risk Appetite
Reputational & Net nominal exposure concentration to clients Temperature alignment – the degree of
Sustainability Risk with High Temperature Alignment and Low projected warming up to 2030 under an
Transition Readiness to monitor misalignment orderly scenario
to Paris Agreement
Country Risk Concentration of Gross Country Risk (GCR) exposure Physical and Transition Risk based on
for countries exposed to extreme transition and internal country Climate Risk index
physical risks
Supporting our frontline teams, we have a dedicated second- We have toolkits to quantitatively measure climate-related
line Climate Risk team. Our Climate Risk Appetite Statement Physical and Transition Risk and in 2022, we continued to
(RAS) is approved annually by the Board, and is supported enhance our understanding of climate-related risks, and
by Board and Management Team level risk appetite significantly strengthened our stress testing and scenario
metrics across Credit – CCIB and CPBB, Reputational and analysis capabilities for a range of management scenarios
Sustainability Risk (RSR), Traded Risk and Country Risk. that are more plausible. We continue to engage with our
corporate clients to understand their Transition and Physical
The metrics are approved by the Group Risk Committee
Risks, as well as their plans to prepare for climate change.
(GRC) (for Management Team level risk appetite metrics)
and the Board (for Board level risk appetite metrics) annually. The data we captured helped us develop our own client-level
Monitoring of adherence to risk appetite metrics commenced climate-risk assessments for both existing and new clients,
in January 2022 and any breaches are reported to the GRC improve our internal climate modelling capabilities and
and Board Risk Committee (BRC). strengthen the risk measurement and monitoring of the
portfolios. Despite significantly advancing in these areas,
We are expanding the scope and coverage of our risk
quality and availability of data is a pervasive issue. While we
appetite metrics for enhanced risk identification and
are focusing on improving the data quality, improvements are
management. Additional metrics to address our public
likely to take several years. In view of the paucity of data and
targets across key sectors and a stress loss metric built on
little to no transition or physical risk related historic data for
scenario outcomes have been identified and are being
model testing, several assumptions and limitations must be
monitored for inclusion in risk appetite reporting in 2023.
made while building these models. The limitations and
The focus for 2023 will be to increase the coverage of
challenges continue to exist which are discussed throughout
existing metrics and introduce new risk appetite metrics.
our disclosures.
The uncertainties surrounding how and when Physical and
Transition Risk will impact mean that no tool or methodology For more details on how we apply scenario analyses and consider
time horizons, please see pages 90 to 95.
is perfectly able to estimate risks from climate change now
For more detail on how we recognise Climate Risk within our ERMF,
or in the future. However, we need to move quickly so we
the risks identified, as well as the processes and toolkits used to do
are developing methodologies, engaging with clients this, see pages 96 to 112.
and integrating Climate Risk into our mainstream risk
management activities and assessments. We will seek
to adapt our approach as the impact from Climate Risk
becomes clearer and the tools and methodologies to gather
reliable data mature.
Strategic report Sustainability
Assessing the resilience of our
strategy using scenario analysis
To assess climate-related risks and opportunities in Scenarios used at Standard Chartered
the short-, medium-, and long-term we use scenario
analysis to consider how risks and opportunities Transition Risk scenarios
may evolve under different situations.
In 2022, we adapted the following scenarios to our
Over recent years, we have progressively strengthened CCIB clients:
our scenario analysis capabilities and developed our
infrastructure and capabilities to incorporate Climate Risk IEA Scenarios:
into data, modelling, and analysis. Despite significantly • Net Zero Emissions by 2050 scenario, which sets out a
advancing scenario analysis capabilities over the past narrow but achievable pathway for the global energy
three years, the modelling of Climate Risk impact over a sector to achieve net zero CO emissions by 2050.
2
30-year period has been expectedly challenging across
• Sustainable Development scenario, which specifies a
multiple dimensions, including scenario data and pathways,
pathway to ensure universal access to affordable, reliable,
availability of client-specific data, and modelling limitations.
sustainable energy by 2030 (SDG 7.1); substantial reduction
Notwithstanding these challenges, our work to date, in air pollution (SDG 3.9) and effective action to combat
using certain assumptions and proxies, indicates that climate change (SDG 13).
our business is resilient to all Network of Central Banks
• Announced Pledges scenario, which assumes that all
and Supervisors for Greening the Financial System
climate commitments made by governments around the
(NGFS) and International Energy Agency (IEA) scenarios
world, including Nationally Determined Contributions
that were explored. For more details on the limitations
(NDCs) and longer-term net zero targets, will be met in
pertaining to the scenario analysis, please see page 94.
full and on time.
With the aim to enhance our internal scenario analysis
capabilities in line with our Risk Appetite Statement, in NGFS Phase 2 framework:
2022 we assessed the impact of Transition Risk on our CCIB This maps scenarios in three different worlds with two
corporate client portfolio based on three IEA scenarios and scenarios produced under each category:
three Phase 2 scenarios from the NGFS, and participated
• 'Hot House' world scenarios, also noted as ‘No Additional
in the Monetary Authority of Singapore Industry-Wide
Policies’, include only currently implemented or pledged
Stress Test. We also assessed the impact of sea-level
policies, which at a global level are insufficient to halt
rises under various Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
significant global warming resulting in severe Physical Risk.
Change (IPCC) Representative Concentration Pathways
(RCP) scenarios to explore the Physical Risk impact on • Orderly scenarios assume climate policies are introduced
the Consumer, Private and Business Banking (CPBB) early and become increasingly stringent, with both physical
residential mortgage portfolio over short- and long-term and transition risks relatively subdued.
time horizons for internal risk management purposes.
• Disorderly scenarios explore higher Transition Risk due to
The results of these analyses are being used to further policies being delayed or being divergent across countries
inform strategy and business planning, set Risk Appetite, and sectors.
identify portfolios with elevated risk concentration, and
Each of the three IEA and NGFS scenarios are characterised
establish linkages to enhanced credit risk assessments.
by different levels of Transition Risk, driven by various features
While we have continued to use external models to in each scenario.
support scenario expansion and modelling of Transition
and Physical Risks, in 2022 we built on this foundation and
developed internal model-building capabilities supported
by an external vendor. The outputs of these models will be
used to support IFRS9 impact analysis, stress testing runs
and various risk management processes. Our aim is that
these internal models will provide greater transparency
when compared to vendor models and enable us to run
various scenarios and calibrate the models as required.
We aim to continuously improve these models throughout
2023 to cater for shorter, more plausible scenarios that
can inform our business strategy and financial planning.
The following section describes the scenarios we use,
their inputs, assumptions, limitations and key insights.
90 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 91
Strategic
report
Features of the IEA and NGFS scenarios used in Standard Chartered scenario analysis
IEA NGFS
Net Zero Emissions Sustainable Announced Orderly Disorderly No Additional
by 2050 Development Pledges Transition Transition Policies
Transitional Risks1 High High Moderate Limited High Limited
Scenario objective To show what Explores Show where Early and Delayed and Physical risk is
is needed to pathway to current NDCs orderly disorderly high as no new
achieve net zero achieve get world transition transition with climate policies
energy-related universal towards 1.5⁰C towards a global action are introduced
and industrial energy access target – low-carbon commencing beyond those
CO emissions and meet goals highlights future only in 2031 implemented
2
by 2050 to combat ambition gap by end-2021.
climate change against Paris Severe flood
Agreement event assumed
in first half of
2022
Temperature rise2 1.5°C 1.7°C 2.1°C 1.6°C 1.8°C 3.0°C
Carbon price3 in 109 95 71 725 670 4
2050
Oil price increase -62% -29% -9% -13% -9% 76%
(2050 vs 2021, %)
Gas price increase -49% -48% -48% -76% -87% -76%
(2050 vs 2021, %)
1 http://www.unepfi.org/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/04/EXTENDING-OUR-HORIZONS.pdf
2 http://www.unepfi.org/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/07/NAVIGATING-A-NEW-CLIMATE.pdf
3 https://av.sc.com/corp-en/content/docs/emissions-whitepaper.pdf
woL
High
sksiR
noitisnarT
Physical Risks
hgiH
Scenarios used in Standard Chartered Scenario Analysis
Network of Central Banks and
NGFS Supervisors for Greening the Financial
System (NGFS)
NGFS Disorderly
Transition
IEA International Energy Agency (IEA)
IEA Net Zero
Emissions
IEA
Sustainable
Develop-
ment
IEA
Announced
Pledges NGFS Hot
NGFS Orderly House
Transition World
The size of the bubble is indicative of the gross expected losses
Low assessed for 53% of our corporate portfolio.
Strategic report Sustainability
Physical Risk Scenarios
Our Physical Risk tool, provided by Munich Re’s Location Risk Intelligence platform, uses standardised scenarios and set time
horizons to assess future risk from acute and chronic physical risks. The forward-looking risk indices are derived based on the
RCP scenarios published by the IPCC. Given the academic challenges with forward-looking Physical Risk scenarios, it is not
possible at this point to customise these as we have done for Transition Risk scenarios.
Forward-looking physical risks, scenarios and time horizons used in our Physical Risk assessments
NATHAN climate hazard indices Description of current and projected climate hazard scores RCP Scenario Time horizon
Tropical Cyclone (TC) Tropical Cyclone zones 4.5, 8.5 2050, 2100
River Flood River Flood zones 4.5, 8.5 2050, 2100
Sea-Level Rise Sea-Level Rise zones 2.6, 4.5, 8.5 2100
Heat Stress Heat Stress Index based on range of high-temperature indicators 2.6, 4.5, 8.5 2050, 2100
Precipitation Stress Precipitation Stress Index based on heavy precipitation indicators 2.6, 4.5, 8.5 2050, 2100
Fire Weather Stress Climatological index for wildfire hazard 2.6, 4.5, 8.5 2050, 2100
Drought Stress Drought Stress Index based on Standardised Precipitation- 2.6, 4.5, 8.5 2050, 2100
Evapotranspiration Index (SPEI)
Key scenario parameters that inform Group scenarios
Global carbon price
In the NGFS orderly transition scenario, the global carbon price rises progressively to above ~$700 by 2050 as the transition
progresses. By contrast, in the NGFS Disorderly Transition scenario, the global carbon price is very low throughout the 2030s,
and then rises steeply in line with the extreme decarbonisation effort required in the late 2030s onwards. In the IEA scenarios,
the global carbon price is significantly lower compared to Carbon prices can vary significantly across regions. In the
NGFS scenarios and rises Middle East and North Africa, and Oceania and Asia Pacific,
to ~$100 by 2050 only in the Net Zero Emissions scenario. the trend of carbon prices in an orderly scenario is gradual
over the 30-year horizon, peaking at around $650. North
America and Europe on the other hand experience a more
rapid pick up in carbon prices between 2020 and 2025 to
approximately $250, after which they gradually increase to
reach a price of just under $900 by 2050.
800
700
600
500
400
300
200
100
0
92 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
OCt/5102DSU 2
Global carbon price used in the NGFS and IEA scenarios
and applied at Standard Chartered
1000
900
800
700
600
500
400
300
200
100
0
2022 2026 2030 2034 2038 2042 2046 2050
NGFS – Orderly Transition NGFS – Orderly Transition NGFS – Hot House World
IEA – Net Zero Emissions IEA – Sustainable Development IEA – Announced Pledges
OCt/5102DSU 2
Regional carbon price used in the NGFS orderly transition
scenario and applied at Standard Chartered
2022 2026 2030 2034 2038 2042 2046 2050
Europe Middle East & North Africa
North America Oceania Asia Pacific
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 93
Strategic
report
Oil and gas
Oil demand varies depending on the scenario pathway The oil price is expected to be impacted. Under both
taken. In the NGFS 'Hot House’ world scenario, the oil NGFS Orderly and NGFS Disorderly Transition, the oil
demand remains like the present day across the time price continues to increase steadily by 2050. In the NGFS
horizon, whereas in both NGFS Orderly and NGFS Disorderly scenario, there is an initial increase before
Disorderly Transition scenarios, oil demand begins to fall it peaks by 2030 and after which it follows the Orderly
after 2030 and drops by about half by 2050. By contrast, Transition scenario. In the ‘Hot House’ world scenario, the
in the IEA Announced Pledges scenario, the oil demand oil price is expected to increase continuously to above
shows a marginal decline to the present day, whereas $100 by 2050. By contrast, in the IEA Announced Pledges
in both IEA Net Zero Emissions and IEA Sustainable scenario, the oil price remains similar to the present day
Development, oil demand begins to fall after 2030 and across the time horizon, whereas in both IEA Sustainable
drops by about half by 2050. Development and IEA Net Zero scenarios, the oil price
continues to fall and drops by about half by 2050.
40,000
35,000
30,000
25,000
20,000
15,000
10,000
5,000
0
raey/)tnelaviuqe
lio
fo
lerrab
noilliM(
eobm
Global oil demand
2022 2026 2030 2034 2038 2042 2046 2050
NGFS – Orderly Transition NGFS – Orderly Transition NGFS – Hot House World
IEA – Net Zero Emissions IEA – Sustainable Development IEA – Announced Pledges
30,000
25,000
20,000
15,000
10,000
5,000
0
raey/)tnelaviuqe
lio
fo lerrab
noilliM(
eobm
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
Global gas demand
2022 2026 2030 2034 2038 2042 2046 2050
NGFS – Orderly Transition NGFS – Orderly Transition NGFS – Hot House World
IEA – Net Zero Emissions IEA – Sustainable Development IEA – Announced Pledges
)tnelaviuqe
lio
lerrab(
eob/5102$
Global oil price
2022 2026 2030 2034 2038 2042 2046 2050
NGFS – Orderly Transition NGFS – Orderly Transition NGFS – Hot House World
IEA – Net Zero Emissions IEA – Sustainable Development IEA – Announced Pledges
10
8
6
4
2
0
)stinu
lamreht
hsitirB
noilliM(
utbMM/5102$
Global gas price
2022 2026 2030 2034 2038 2042 2046 2050
NGFS – Orderly Transition NGFS – Orderly Transition NGFS – Hot House World
IEA – Net Zero Emissions IEA – Sustainable Development IEA – Announced Pledges
Strategic report Sustainability
Regional Power Generation
Power sector decarbonisation is not uniform across all In the NGFS ‘Hot House’ world scenario, renewables are
regions in our scenarios, reflective of current market projected to increase to meet the growing demand, while
conditions and regional need for energy. It also considers the total hydrocarbon power production remains relatively
that population growth and economies expand at stable. Similarly, in the IEA Announced Pledges scenario,
different rates. renewables increase to meet reduction in hydrocarbon
power production.
Both the NGFS Orderly and NGFS Disorderly Transition
scenarios are characterised by a highly decarbonised power
sector in 2050 with a significant expansion in renewables.
Similarly, IEA Net Zero and IEA Sustainable Development
scenarios show significant expansion in renewables.
Regional power generation Similarly, IEA net zero and IEA sustainable development
Power sector decarbonisation is not uniform across all regions scenarios show significant expansion in renewables.
in our scenarios, reflective of current market conditions and
In the NGFS ‘hot house’ world scenario, renewables are
regional need for energy. It also considers that population projected to increase to meet the growing demand, while the
growth and economies expand at different rates.
total hydrocarbon power production remains relatively stable.
Both the NGFS orderly and NGFS disorderly transition Similarly, in the IEA announced pledges scenario renewables
scenarios are characterised by a highly decarbonised power increases to meet reduction in hydrocarbon power
sector in 2050 with a significant expansion in renewables. production.
To be updated
Limitations
Despite the efforts in gathering data, significant gaps still Many of the assumptions and methodologies that underpin
exist, and we have not been able to run a Transition Risk scenario analysis rely significantly on nascent methodologies
scenario for CPBB. We have a plan to close these data gaps, as well as a dependence on first generation external models
but it is likely to take several years, including periodically and data challenges. Most of these limitations are shared
working with third parties, use of proxies and engaging across the industry. Levels of disclosure, climate preparedness
clients to gather more information. and policies to limit emissions are often observed to be less
mature in some emerging market regions.
The impact of the scenarios has so far been based on a
simplified approach, primarily focusing on the credit risk of As more solution providers come to the market and banks
the Group’s portfolios, static balance sheets and conducted start extensively using them to build internal understanding
at a counterparty level for CCIB clients and postcode level for and capabilities, the transparency and sophistication of
Consumer Mortgages. Significant increase in credit risk (SICR) modelling methodologies and assumptions will likely increase.
thresholds are not incorporated while estimating credit risk
losses for climate scenario analysis.
94 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
raey/eobm
Regional power production by energy mix used in the NGFS and IEA scenarios, applied by Standard Chartered Group
18,000
16,000
14,000
12,000
10,000
Other
8,000
Wind
Solar
6,000
Oil
Nuclear
4,000
Hydro
Natural Gas
2,000
Coal
Bio Energy
0
CHNEUR INDNAMCHNEUR INDNAMCHNEUR INDNAMCHNEUR INDNAMCHNEUR INDNAMCHNEUR INDNAMCHNEUR INDNAM
2020 2050 2050 2050 2050 2050 2050
NGFS - Hot House World NGFS – NGFS – IEA – IEA – IEA –
Orderly Disorderly Net Zero Sustainable Announced
Transition Transition Emissions Development Pledges
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 95
Strategic
report
Transition and Physical Risk scenario Developing our capabilities
analysis results We have identified several areas for future development:
Modelled results demonstrate the clear benefits of early • Improved data availability and ability to gather data
action to mitigate climate change.1 The modelled results across our corporate and retail clients (e.g. client-level
across the IEA and NGFS scenarios have been carried out for emission intensity, physical locations of assets, power
approximately 53 per cent of our corporate portfolio, primarily consumption patterns). Through our client-level climate risk
reflective of the gross transition risks, while client-level questionnaires (covering approximately 65 per cent of our
transition plans have not been factored into the analysis. total corporate exposure in 2022) we gather information
Relatively lower loss estimates in the NGFS ‘Hot House’ world on client-level transition plans, including potential client
and the IEA Announced Pledges scenarios reflect the nascent outreach for clients with high Transition Risk and low
modelling capabilities on assessing Physical Risk impact to transition mitigation levels.
client asset locations, and second-order impacts such as on • Continued improvement in scenario design and modelling
the supply chain. The impact from each of the scenarios on capabilities, with an established roadmap to develop this
aggregate gross expected credit loss in the NGFS and IEA capability in-house and build internal models.
scenarios is shown in the bubble charts on page 91.
• In line with plans to develop internal modelling capabilities,
In comparison to other stress tests conducted across our engage an external vendor and/or partner with our
portfolios, these estimates are relatively muted. academic adviser (Imperial College London) to design a
The result of the IEA Net Zero scenario is more critical, with range of scenarios (e.g. short-term, bespoke scenarios
severe loss projection over a 30-year horizon compared to the targeted to our portfolios and markets, and consideration
other two IEA scenarios. The increase in carbon price, drastic of second-order impacts).
decrease in oil and gas demand and oil price, along with the • Despite these limitations, our intention is to focus on
emergence of a highly decarbonised power sector by 2050 how Climate Risk management can inform portfolio
impacts Oil and gas, Commodity traders and the management and support opportunity identification
Transportation sectors. with clients on their transition and adaptation pathways.
The IEA Announced Pledges scenario shows the least severe
loss projection over a 30-year horizon. The scenario depicts a Qualitative review of climate risks and
negligible increase in carbon price and almost no change in oil opportunities in annual business strategy
demand and price by 2050. The combination of these factors and financial planning
results in a moderate loss projection. In 2022, Climate Risk was considered as part of our formal
The IEA Sustainable Development scenario depicts a annual corporate strategy and financial planning process.
moderate increase in carbon price. Oil demand almost In addition, we developed management scenarios with an
halves and oil price reduces by ~30 per cent over current levels. aim of strengthening our business strategy and financial
The combination of these factors results in higher losses for planning to support the Group’s net zero journey.
the Oil and gas, Commodity Traders and Automobile sectors. We use both qualitative and quantitative aspects focusing on
The results for the NGFS Orderly Transition scenario are revenue reliance from clients in high-carbon sectors and/or
driven by an increase in carbon price and drop in oil and gas locations in regions most exposed to Physical Risk, considering
demand. The steady increase in carbon price from 2021 to adequacy of mitigation plans. Where applicable, results are
2050 leads to an overall increase in defaults, driven by the then independently reviewed by regional and client-segment
decrease in revenue and profitability levels due to an increase Chief Risk Officers (CROs) and the Climate Risk team. Climate
in carbon price related costs. Risk impact is also included in the Risk review of our corporate
plan, which is considered by the Board as part of their
By contrast, the NGFS Disorderly Transition scenario sees approval of the overall Corporate Plan. The 2023 Corporate
fast-growing carbon prices after 2030, which impacts Plan includes an increase in loan impairment due to the
company Probability of Defaults (PDs) and leads to an impact from Climate Risk.
increase in loss projections. The Commodity Traders, Oil
and gas and Automobiles sectors are the most impacted In most cases, the physical and transition risks identified were
in this scenario. assessed to be well controlled in the short term. We are not
actively targeting growth in most of the high-carbon sectors
The concentration of the Group’s portfolio exposure for the and are instead prioritising sustainable finance products to
top eight residential mortgage portfolios exposed to extreme clients in high-carbon sectors to decarbonise their business
sea-level rise risk was computed using the Munich Re model’s models. Growth ambition is shifting to lower-carbon sectors
outputs. It has been observed to remain stable at 2 per cent such as clean technology. Our sustainable finance priorities,
for RCP 4.5 and 8.5 scenarios and at 1 per cent under the including new emerging products such as sustainable
RCP 2.6 scenario. deposits, carbon trading and ESG Advisory, and dedicated
transition frameworks, seek to respond to transition risks in the
short term, strengthening our resilience towards a 2°C or lower
transition scenario. However, longer-term transition risks were
highlighted, particularly for the Africa and Middle East (AME)
region, given its dependency on fossil fuels; and longer-term
physical risks were deemed to be most relevant for the
Asia region.
1 The modelled results across the IEA and NGFS scenarios have been carried out for approximately 53% of our corporate portfolio reflective of primarily the gross
transition risks while client-level transition plans have not been factored into the analysis. Relatively lower loss estimates in the NGFS ‘Hot House’ world scenario
and the IEA Announced Pledges scenario reflect the nascent modelling capabilities on assessing Physical Risk impact to client asset locations and second-order
impacts such as that on the supply chain. The impact from each of the scenarios on aggregate gross expected credit loss in the NGFS and IEA scenarios is shown
in the bubble charts on page 91. In comparison to other stress tests conducted across our portfolios, these estimates are relatively muted.
Strategic report Sustainability
Mitigating the financial and non-financial
risks from climate change
We are exposed to Climate Risk through our • Treat Climate Risk like a traditional risk type. Climate Risk
clients, our own operations and from the sectors may lead to financial losses and non-financial detriments,
much like Credit Risk, and should be managed as such
and markets we support.
to limit the Group’s exposure to detriments. This means
Preparations to manage Climate Risk as a Prudential Financial embedding Climate Risk considerations into our existing risk
risk began in 2019. At that time, our Group Chief Risk Officer identification and management processes, governance,
took responsibility for Climate Risk and the requirements set reporting, scenario analysis (including stress testing),
out in the Prudential Regulation Authority's Supervisory strategy and financial planning.
Statement 3/19. Climate Risk was also incorporated into our • Recognise and build for where Climate Risk is different.
Group-wide risk taxonomy through the ERMF (where it is Unlike traditional risk types, Climate Risk is likely to crystallise
defined as ‘the potential for financial loss and non-financial over much longer time horizons and is inherently difficult
detriments arising from climate change and society’s to quantify. Its unique features and a need for granular
response to it’). forward-looking measurements require the use and
Since then, we have designed an approach that begins to development of new tools and methodologies to quantify
integrate Climate Risk with other Principal Risk Types (PRTs) and analyse the implications.
within our central ERMF, based around two principles:
Climate Risk taxonomy
Climate Risk The potential for financial loss and non-financial detriments arising
from climate change and society’s response to it.
Sub-risk types
Physical Risk Risks arising from increasing severity and frequency of climate- and weather-related events.
These events can damage property and other infrastructure, disrupt business supply chains,
and impact food production. This can reduce asset values, potentially resulting in lower
profitability for companies. Indirect effects on the macroeconomic environment, such as
lower output and productivity, exacerbate these direct impacts.
Acute Specific event-driven weather events, including increased severity of extreme weather
events, such as cyclones, hurricanes, floods or wildfires.
Chronic Longer-term shifts in climate patterns, such as changing precipitation patterns, sea-level
rise, and longer-term drought.
Transition Risk Risk arising from the adjustment towards a carbon-neutral economy, which will require
significant structural changes to the economy. These changes will prompt a reassessment
of a wide range of asset values, a change in energy prices, and a fall in income and
creditworthiness of some borrowers. In turn, this entails credit losses for lenders and
market losses for investors.
Climate Risk is considered an Integrated Risk Type because it manifests though impacted Principal Risk Types (PRTs) or
overarching risk types. Principal risks are those risks that are inherent in our strategy and business model and are also formally
defined in the ERMF. We have identified seven PRTs that are most materially impacted by potential climate risks and describes
transmission channels for Climate Risk manifesting as financial and non-financial risk.
96 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 97
Strategic
report
Existing risk classification and Climate Risk transmission channels in the context of the Group’s existing risk types.
Climate Risk manifests through existing risk types
Credit Credit Operational Country
CCIB CPBB and Technology
Disruption to client business Physical risks, such as rising Climate-related risks Climate-related risks may
models or operations sea levels and increasingly manifest when acute or adversely impact sovereigns'
from both Transition severe flood events, could chronic physical risks, economic strength and
and Physical Risk events damage property and such as flooding or storms impact their ability to raise
may increase operating impact collateral valuations, disrupt our own properties taxes and increase their
expenditure as well as or through direct damage (including branches, cost of borrowing, directly
cause disruption to revenue. or loss of insurance, could offices, data centres), client impacting their overall
A client’s profitability can also adversely affect service resilience, third- creditworthiness. Physical
be impacted due to a repayment ability and party corporate service risks from increasing
reduced demand in high- leading to potential arrangements and material frequency and severity of
carbon products or services, increases in credit losses. supply chain arrangements. extreme climate change-
impacted asset/collateral Furthermore, increased related weather events may
valuations and increasing default risk and losses may lead to the degradation
capital expenditure driven arise through changes to of existing infrastructure,
by regulatory carbon the economic environment large-scale disruptions,
penalties and investment in as the economy transitions displacement of assets
new technology aimed at towards lower emissions. and mass migration, while
encouraging transition to a transition risk arises from
low-carbon economy. The a sovereigns' efforts to
impact to profitability can transition towards a low-
thereby affect their capacity carbon economy which
to generate the income leads to policy, market
required to repay debt, or and technology shocks.
the capital and collateral
required to back the loan.
Reputational Compliance Traded Treasury
and Sustainability
Potential for stakeholders to Risk of failing to comply with Acute Physical Risk events Disruption from weather
view the Group negatively current and emerging Climate or an extremely disruptive events and adverse impacts
due to actual or perceived Risk regulations globally. transition can cause sudden due to the transition to a
actions or inactions related to For example, the Prudential changes in the fair value of low-carbon economy, on
our stated climate, ESG and Regulation Authority’s assets driven by commodity client business models and
net zero ambition. Increasing Supervisory Statement SS3/19 price changes. Additional financial stability of clients
expectations on banks from and the Monetary Authority impact may result due to that provide us liquidity, can
governments, regulators, of Singapore’s Environmental trigger sales, sudden and impact capital adequacy
NGOs, investors and Risk Management guidelines. negative price adjustments and/or liquidity levels needed
individuals brings heightened where Climate Risk is not yet to ensure financial stability
reputational risks. incorporated into prices. during periods of stress.
Principal Risk Types: Financial Non-financial
Physical Risk Transition Risk
Strategic report Sustainability
Across each risk type, we provide some early-stage prototype
metrics that provide quantitative estimates of gross transition
and gross physical risks using the toolkits explained above
and are used to inform risk management for each of the PRTs
integrated with climate-related risks. Depending on the PRT,
metrics are used for risk-management activities and processes
spanning across stress testing, transaction assessments,
client reviews, portfolio assessments, risk-appetite metrics
and management information. For all the metrics presented,
there are challenges with availability of reliable data, and
methodologies that are simplistic and first-generation,
placing some reliance on proxy information. As
methodologies and learnings emerge, we intend to
progressively refine and update our approach, and to
extend the coverage of client or product groups captured.
Our climate toolkit – processes for identifying
and assessing Climate Risk
While the outputs and findings inform our risk management
decisions, it is important to be aware of the limitations when
assessing Climate Risk. Approaches to quantifying Climate
Risk are nascent and data availability and coverage present
challenges. This is particularly true in emerging markets where
Climate Risk-related disclosure and preparedness can be less
advanced. This places some reliance on proxy information
and we will refine our evaluations and methodologies
progressively as the availability and quality of data improves.
To enable us to gather more data and manage and monitor
Physical and Transition risks actively, we continue to conduct
case level reviews for enhanced due diligence on high ‘Climate
Credit’ and ‘Climate and RSR’ for our corporate clients.
The toolkits are used to identify and assess:
• Physical Risk: current-day and longer-term time horizons
(2050, 2100) under representative concentration pathway
(RCP) scenarios 2.6, 4.5 and 8.5, for acute weather events
(e.g. storms, floods or earthquakes) and chronic sea-
level rise.
• Transition Risk: translates orderly, disorderly and ‘hot-house’
world transition scenario variables from NGFS and Net
Zero Emissions by 2050, Sustainable development and
announced pledges scenario variables from IEA to financial
impact at a client level. See page 94 for more detail on how
we use these scenarios and their limitations.
• Temperature alignment: provides a temperature score to
indicate client- and portfolio-level global warming potential
up to 2030.
98 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 99
Strategic
report
Overview of our Climate Risk toolkit and application
Advisor or Asset Class or
Data Provider Operations Metrics Scope Time Horizon Scenario Application
Munich RE • Corporate Location-based • Tropical Cyclone Current day, RCP 2.6, 4.5, 8.5 Assessing Physical
• Retail mortgages
hazard and risk
• River
2050, 2100 Risk for:
scores
1. Client assets and operating
• The Group’s offices, • Flood
locations as well as property
branches and data
• Sea-Level Rise collateral.
centres
• Heat Stress Index 2. Retail mortgages – portfolio
concentrations by hazard type.
• Precipitation Stress Index
3. T he Group’s location strategy for
• Fire Weather Stress operations – branches, offices and
(climatological index) data centres, other sites.
• Drought Stress Index 4. The toolkit also helps inform the
Group’s risk appetite across all
risk types.
BlackRock • Corporate Temperature • Generate a company’s 2030 2 degrees only Reputational and Sustainability Risk
Alignment TA score to measure its assessment for CCIB clients in high
impact on the climate carbon-emitting sectors
through a dedicated
methodology
BlackRock • Corporate • Financial impact • Using Standard Up to 2050 Scenarios for Transition Risk assessment over
• Sovereigns • Equity
Chartered data and categories various scenarios for corporate and
configurations, run orderly, sovereign clients are used for:
valuations
BlackRock’s Aladdin disorderly and
1. Client-level review as part of credit
• Sovereign bond Climate Transition Risk hot-house
decision-making.
valuations models to translate world, e.g.
transition scenario NGFS Phase 2, 2. Portfolio concentration measures
variables to impact on IEA including risk appetite.
company financials and
probabilities of default1 3. Scenario analysis and stress testing.
Baringa • Corporates • Financial impact • IEA scenario expansion Up to 2050 Scenarios for Transition Risk assessments over
• Sovereigns • Temperature • Detailed stakeholder
categories various scenarios for corporate and
orderly, sovereign clients are used for:
Alignment (TA) walk-through session to
disorderly and
review and interpret the 1. Client-level reviews as part of credit
hot-house
results. decision-making.
world, e.g.
NGFS Phase 2, 2. Portfolio concentration measures
IEA including Risk Appetite.
3. Scenario analysis and stress testing.
S&P Global • Provides additional Emissions Absolute emissions (tonnes Current Day N/A Inputs into the Group’s client-level risk
climate data information across of CO
2
e) and emissions and Historic assessment for corporate clients and
clients (including intensities by revenue net zero modelling.
history) (tonnes of COe/$ million)
2
for Scope 1 and 2 and
Corporate client
where available for
asset-location
Scope 3 emissions.
data
(Client-level emissions were
only available for about
37 per cent of corporate
clients, so sector average
proxies were used for the
remaining entities.)
Geolocation for clients
Imperial • Academic advisory 1. Long-term research on Climate Risk. N/A N/A 1. The Group has partnered with
College and research 2. Advisory on shorter-term, internally focused Imperial College London to produce
partnership a three-part series on ‘Future of Food’
London projects to enhance Climate Risk capabilities.
research, exploring the risks and
3. T raining and education of our colleagues, opportunities facing the global
Management Team and Board. agricultural sector from climate
change.
Deloitte • Corporates Forecasting the • Transition Risk Up to 2050 NGFS scenarios We are developing our own internal
• Sovereigns
financial impact
• Physical Risk
for orderly Climate Risk models to reduce
transition, reliance on vendor models and
• Climate scenario disorderly increase transparency and control in
expansion transition, and the assessment of the impact of
hot-house Climate Risk.
world
Once the models have gone through
our model risk management
governance and approval process,
the outputs will be used to support
management in their assessment of
the impact of climate risk on IFRS 9
expected credit losses, stress testing
runs, and related risk management
processes.
1 The inclusion of the Aladdin Climate analytics, provided by BlackRock, contained in this report should not be construed as a characterisation regarding the
materiality or financial impact of that information. The Aladdin Climate analytics include non-financial metrics that are subject to measurement uncertainties
resulting from limitations inherent in the nature and the methods used for determining such data.
The Aladdin Climate analytics are not fixed and are likely to change and evolve over time. The Aladdin Climate analytics rely on comparatively new analysis
and there is limited peer review or comparable data available. BlackRock does not guarantee and shall not be responsible for the content, accuracy, timeliness,
non-infringement, or completeness of Aladdin Climate analytics contained herein or have any liability resulting from the use of the Aladdin Climate analytics in
this report or any actions taken in reliance on any information herein. Some results are disclosed in this report to illustrate our steps in beginning to quantify the
impact of Climate Risk. We fully intend to develop and mature our application of Climate Risk assessment over the coming years.
Physical Risk Transition Risk
Strategic report Sustainability
Processes for managing Climate Risk for each. In 2022, we have continued to build Climate Risk
into existing risk-management processes, to enhance our
Integrating climate-related risks into ability to identify, assess and monitor across risk types.
overall risk management
We continuously look for ways to refine and update our
Climate Risk is recognised in the Group ERMF as an
approach as methodologies and learnings emerge, including
integrated risk type, i.e. it manifests through existing risk
the expansion of client or product coverage where possible.
types and is managed in line with the impacted risk type
frameworks. We manage Climate Risk according to the The areas where we have made progress to embed Climate
characteristics of these PRTs and are embedding climate-risk Risk considerations within business and across PRTs are listed
considerations into the relevant frameworks and processes below.
Process to embed Climate Risk considerations
Framework/
Principal Policies/ Risk
Risk Type Standards Appetite Reporting Further Details
Credit Risk Y1 Y Y • The Climate Risk Standard, effective from 1 July 2022, mandates all new and
– CCIB (Effective existing corporate clients (CG 1-12) with an advised limit greater or equal to
July 2022) $20m to be assessed for Climate Risk considerations.
• A new technology solution called the ESG Navigator has been deployed to
assess Climate Risk considerations for all in scope clients since July 2022.
• Throughout 2022 we have covered ~80 per cent of high Transition Risk sectors
(i.e. Oil and gas, Mining and Power) and ~65 per cent of the Group’s total
corporate exposure.
• By 2023, we aim to achieve 80 per cent coverage of the Group’s total
corporate exposure and extend Climate Risk-related considerations to
deepen credit underwriting and broaden linkages, account management
and client engagement.
Credit Risk Y Y Y • In our progress for 2022, we have expanded Physical Risk assessments to
– CPBB additional markets within Consumer Mortgage (Bangladesh, Vietnam,
Jersey) and new products (Business Banking Client Mortgage) and Medium
Enterprises (ME). These are over and above the Top 8 markets for the Group
covered in 2021.
• The metrics are refreshed on a quarterly basis and reported to key
governance committees.
Country Risk2 Y Y Y • Our methodology for Physical and Transition Risk Sovereign Rankings now
includes external benchmarks as key inputs and factors in Transition Risk
mitigation measures being put in place by sovereigns.
• We have partnered with Imperial College to develop Physical Risk Report
Cards for key sovereigns in Asia, which provide a detailed breakdown of the
scores, along with key takeaways and historic climate disaster statistics.
We intend to expand this to other countries.
Reputational Y Y Y • Adherence to net zero RA thresholds for our Phase 1 high-carbon sectors will
and be monitored as part of management information. The Climate Risk Decision
Sustainability Framework (CRDF) which helps assess climate-related reputational risk
Risk for clients in high transition sectors is now embedded within the Group
Reputational Risk Standards. The framework details a set of referral triggers
to the Group Climate Risk team to consider for enhanced due diligence and
rating change methodology.
• We aim to become net zero in our financed emissions by 2050 and have set
interim targets for specific high-carbon sectors. This will be extended to other
sectors through 2023.
Operational Y In-progress3 Y • All new property sites onboarded within the Group are assessed for Physical
and Risk vulnerabilities. Material Third-Party Corporate Service arrangements in
Technology scope for Business Continuity Management controls are subject to Climate
Risk Risk assessment as part of third-party continuity plans.
Traded Risk Y Y Y • The Traded Risk stress testing framework has been updated to cover market
(Effective impacts from Climate Risk including an assessment of Transition Risk and two
May 2022) Physical Risk scenarios as part of the global Traded Risk scenarios inventory.
These flow into existing Traded Risk Board-level RA metrics.
Compliance Y N4 N4 • We have an established process to maintain oversight of climate risk-related
Risk regulations across footprint markets centrally.
Treasury Risk N3 N4 N4 • We consider Capital requirements as part of the Group Internal Capital
Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP). On the liquidity side, we have
leveraged our client-level Climate Risk assessments to assess climate risk-
related vulnerabilities and readiness of our top corporate liquidity providers.
1 Relevant Framework/Policies/Standards, RA metrics and Risk Reporting are available/implemented.
2 Integral component of the ERMF.
3 Plans are in place to integrate Climate Risk into the Framework/policies/standards, RA and Risk Reporting.
4 Plans to integrate Climate Risk into the Framework/policies/standards, RA and Risk Reporting will be developed.
100 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 101
Strategic
report
A deeper dive into each risk type is provided in the Within the Consumer Mortgage business, we have developed
following section. internal guidance on physical Climate Risk management for
all our markets. The recommendations covered through
Credit Risk this include the establishment of a zoning policy with
For many banks, Credit Risk presents the largest proportion differentiated criteria according to the level of exposure
of risk they face on their books. The industry has developed concentration to physical risk, the setting of risk mitigations
sophisticated management frameworks, which provide a where appropriate, as well as accounting for government-led
baseline level of effective mitigation from risks. However, these adaptation measures on Physical Risk if it has not been
industry-wide, existing processes have not yet evolved to considered before. A key design step has been to set up the
account for the unprecedented level and type of risk that framework for a holistic approach, catering for market forces
climate change brings, and additional climate risk-specific when establishing the zoning policy, including the setting of
analysis is required as the tools and methodologies mature. appropriate trigger monitoring and escalation measures.
We currently offer differentiated loan-to-value for select ESG
Consumer, Private and Business Banking (CPBB) Credit Risk focused structured products, which align with the Bank’s
For CPBB, we have made progress in embedding Climate Green and Sustainable Product Framework.
Risk into mainstream portfolio management in 2022. Our
The focus for 2023 will be to further develop our approach for
approach is currently more advanced for the Consumer
assessing the physical and transition impact of unsecured
Mortgage business, which is CPBB’s largest portfolio and for
consumer lending products such as credit cards and personal
which there are identifiable and measurable risks applicable
loans and initiate work on measuring Transition Risk
to the residential property collateral. Across CPBB, our risk
vulnerabilities of our Consumer Mortgage portfolios. We aim
identification and measurement focuses on acute and
to utilise proxied financed emissions for our key markets to
forward-looking physical risks (storm, flood, wildfire, and
begin model transition risk for consumer mortgages. We
sea-level rise) across key markets.
recognise that the data limitation will continue to persist
In 2021, this covered approximately 65 per cent of the total given the lack of property-level data on energy consumption
CPBB consumer business book. In 2022, this was expanded to and limited energy label coverage in the key markets we
three additional markets for Consumer Mortgages and select operate in. To improve the accuracy of our financed emissions
markets for other CPBB products (Business Banking Client measurement capabilities, we partnered with Imperial
Mortgages and Medium Enterprises, representing 3 per cent College to refine our energy consumption derivation
and 1.6 per cent of the consumer business book respectively). methodology, including the enhancement of our emissions
factor database for major markets.
We use the output of the Physical Risk assessments of our
Consumer Mortgage property locations to inform discussions We undertake quarterly scenario analysis for the eight key
during our credit portfolio quarterly reviews, and to Consumer Mortgage portfolios, focusing on sea-level rise
periodically monitor concentration exposure to the perils across 3 RCPs (2.6, 4.5, 8.5) in the year 2100.
identified above.
Assessment of gross Physical Risk profile for Consumer Mortgages showing outstanding exposure subject to very high gross
Physical Risk*
Outstanding exposure at very high gross Physical Risk %
Physical risk event Korea Hong Kong Taiwan India Malaysia Singapore UAE Indonesia Others Globally
Flood (Acute) 14% 45% 12% 23% 6% 3% 30% 21% 52% 26%
Sea-level rise 1% 4% 0% 1% 0% 0% 36% 2% 1% 2%
(Chronic – RPC 8.5)
* Data as of Sep 22
Strategic report Sustainability
Analysis of Consumer Mortgage portfolio showing outstanding exposure subject to very high gross Flood Risk
Exposure Concentration to Extreme Flood Risk
≤25% 2 6–50% 51–75% 7 6–100%
Korea Hong Kong Taiwan India
Physical risk event Q4-21 Q3-22 Trend Q4-21 Q3-22 Trend Q4-21 Q3-22 Trend Q4-21 Q3-22 Trend
Flood (Acute) 14.2% 13.8% 45.0% 45.0% 11.6% 11.8% 22.0% 23.0%
Malaysia Singapore UAE Indonesia
Physical risk event Q4-21 Q3-22 Trend Q4-21 Q3-22 Trend Q4-21 Q3-22 Trend Q4-21 Q3-22 Trend
Flood (Acute) 6.0% 5.7% 2.8% 3.1% 30.1% 30.4% 19.7% 20.5%
Note: Increase is called out for markets showing a rise of >5% year-on-year in flood risk exposure concentration.
Caution about the metrics A view of Transition Risk across a variety of global transition
The metrics are based on outputs from Munich Re’s natural pathways is derived using a climate change scenario
catastrophe model and the results do not factor in existing modelling tool as well as a temperature alignment tool.
adaptation measures, governmental policies to protect
We have also identified relevant climate policy inputs
and build for changing weather, and structural adaptation
at a sector and regional level and assessed the specific
(e.g. age and quality of construction, or flood defences and
impact timeframe that an entity may face, to provide an
dams protecting the property). Over time, sovereigns and
understanding of Transition Risk applicable to each client.
policymakers are expected to drive market trends such
Their outputs are fed into our client-level Climate Risk
as investment in adaptation financing, technological
Questionnaires (CRQ) to help to create a multi-dimensional
advancements, innovative risk transfer and mitigation
consolidated assessment of Climate Risk.
approaches to combat the potential impacts of climate
change. Presently, we do not see any significant stress over the By the end of 2022, we had embedded assessments in our
short-term horizon on account of Physical Risk in our Consumer existing credit process for clients covering approximately
Mortgage and Business Banking Mortgage portfolios. 85 per cent of high Transition Risk sectors (i.e. Oil and gas,
Mining and Power) and 65 per cent of the Group’s total
Corporate, Commercial and Institutional corporate exposure (c. 2,100 clients assessed).
Banking (CCIB) Credit Risk
Where climate change is expected to manifest into a financial
Our client-level Climate Risk Questionnaire (CRQ) helps us risk in the near-term, we may find it appropriate to apply
assess the potential financial risks from climate change using warning signals, such as risk triggers through an enhanced
both quantitative and qualitative information across five key due diligence conducted by the Group Climate Risk and
pillars. The assessment presents a consolidated view of how Credit Risk teams. In 2023, we intend to look at implementing
the individual company has performed with regards to overall guidance to allow adjustments to credit grading scorecards
Climate Risk, how it sits within the sector as well as a regional and additional monitoring mechanisms, for example through
view against benchmarks. our Early Alert process. One of our key focus areas is to develop
Physical Risk for our corporate client locations is assessed a pilot framework to help inform these credit decisions and we
using Munich Re’s NATHAN tool, which helps us evaluate aim to embed this framework by December 2023.
the impact from current and acute risks of operating asset
locations as sourced from S&P's Trucost asset location data.
102 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 103
Strategic
report
Our Climate Risk client-level assessment for Credit Risk and data sources
Standard Chartered’s corporate client Climate Risk assessment framework
Governance and Gross Physical Physical Risk Gross Transition Transition
Disclosures Risk Adaptation Risk Risk Mitigation
Identify any Modelled output to Acknowledgment and Identify Transition Risk of Acknowledgement of
acknowledgment assess the current day assessment of Physical a company based on Transition Risk and a
of climate change and forward-looking Risk to client’s business, the client’s reliance on display of credibility of
related risks in public risks to client’s operating its supply chain and on fossil fuels as part of a client’s business and
reports, defined locations across a assets from a forward- product/service mix, supply chain focused on
targets, management number of climate looking perspective, potential financial assessing their emissions
incentives alignment related hazards. quantification of impact under various reporting, emissions
with Climate Risk, TCFD Physical Risk impact, climate scenarios as well reductions targets and
aligned disclosures. adaptation measures as potential macro and progress, plans to reduce
It helps to review to date, adaptation micro-climate risks via reliance on fossil fuels,
the level of Climate measures in plan, the tracking of climate capital expenditure
Risk management a including insurance transition policies across or investment in low
company has in place, coverage. all footprint regions and carbon technologies,
as well as assess how sectors. Additionally, we adaptability for change
the market can perceive look at how the entity in consumer demand as
their sophistication of performs across these well as strategy plans
climate disclosures. areas, with respect to towards implementing
the average of the internal carbon pricing
sector in which they or other offset related
operate, to identify mechanisms.
divergences from sector
transition expectations.
Data sources
TCFD disclosures, CDP, S&P (asset level data), TCFD disclosures, CDP, S&P for client-level TCFD disclosures, CDP,
ESG, Sustainability Climate Change ESG, Sustainability emissions data, ESG, Sustainability
reports, annual reports Scenario Model and reports, annual reports temperature alignment reports, annual reports
Munich Re’s NATHAN & model and climate
Climate tool change scenario model
In 2023, we aim to refresh existing assessments as well as The client assessments not only help form a view of the
expand our coverage to c.4,000 clients covering 80 per cent overall Climate Risk vulnerabilities and readiness for clients
of the overall corporate net nominal exposure. Additionally, but provide a tool for data gathering and analysis of the
as part of our ongoing agenda to accurately measure the underlying themes that drive Climate Risk and its mitigations.
total impact from Climate Risk, we have started to develop The following section gives insights gained from all completed
an approach for assessing the Climate Risk of our clients’ Client Risk assessments performed over 2022 (2,100 entities
collateral across property, shipping and aviation and will covering approximately 65 per cent of corporate net
begin incorporating this into our Climate Risk assessments nominal exposure), compared with the previous year
when finalised. For the shipping and aviation sectors, we (covering 1,940 entities), to highlight the direction of travel
assess the vulnerability to transition risk of the underlying across our portfolio. The charts indicate the percentage of
collateral asset itself (aircraft or carriers), whereas for property clients within our assessed portfolio performing Climate Risk
collateral, Physical risk related vulnerabilities are prioritised. management activities.
* Data as of Nov 22
Strategic report Sustainability
Governance and disclosures Results from our client-level Climate Risk assessment
This pillar of our client assessment seeks to understand how on transition readiness*
climate-related responsibilities are managed within an
organisation with a stronger score indicating a greater degree 2022 2021
of client readiness. Two-thirds of clients now acknowledge
Percentage of clients in scope
Climate Risk as a financial risk to their direct operations and/
or supply chain, while only 58 per cent have a quantifiable R em ep is o s r i t o s n S s cope 1 & 2 2022 49% 61%
climate policy or commitment in place. These have both
2021 71%
increased since our 2021 assessment, reflecting an increase in
our coverage, as well as a positive movement from companies
Reports Scope 3
to disclose their climate-related risks, moving to over half of emissions 2022 52%
assessed clients. 2021 61%
Has transition plan
2022 43%
to meet current or
future regulations 2021 43%
Results from our client-level Climate Risk assessment
on governance and disclosure* Has made plans for 2022 13% 54%
investment in low-
2022 (2,109 clients) 2021 (1,940 clients) carbon technologies 2021 49%
Acknowledges Has Scope 1 & 2 2022 15% 49%
2022 67% reduction targets
climate risks in annual/ 2021 35%
ESG reporting
2021 64%
Has Scope 3 2022 17%
Has quantifiable 2022 58% reduction targets
climate policy 2021 13%
or commitment 2021 55%
Client performs 2022 21%
financial transition
H m a e s m b b o e a r r w d ith 2022 55% scenario analysis 2021 23%
climate oversight 2021 49%
*F uDtuareta s taras toefg Ny ov 22 2022 20%
Have management considers carbon price
incentives linked 2022 29% 2021 14%
to climate Physical Risk readiness
2021 32%
Through this pillar, we are seeking to assess if clients
have quantified the financial impact of physical risks
Has TCFD-aligned 2022 37%
disclosures and understand if they are taking proportionate
2021 29% adaptation actions.
We have seen a positive movement in the number of clients
Discloses to 2022 29% acknowledging the impact that physical risks could have on
CDP
their direct operations, up to 54 per cent, while those adopting
2021 33%
adaptation measures against these risks has only climbed by
* Data as of Nov 22 1 per cent. This is not surprising, as we have seen little progress
in industries towards physical adaptation measures given the
Transition Risk readiness long-term and large-scale nature of mitigants.
This pillar of the CRA covers the intent, progress and
capability of the client to mitigate the risks in transitioning to Results from our client-level Climate Risk assessment
a net zero economy. There has been a drop in the percentage on Physical Risk readiness*
of clients reporting Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions. Despite this,
the number of clients that have set Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions 2022 2021
reduction targets has grown, showing a positive trend
towards setting quantifiable commitments to action against Percentage of clients in scope
climate change. This is encouraging as it shows quantifiable
Acknowledges 2022 54%
steps taken by corporates to act on their transition plans. Physical Risk
2021 50%
Assessed 2022 39%
Physical Risk
2021 34%
Have taken
adaptation measures 2022 3 4 9 0 % %
to date or made
future plans to 2021 39%
Estimates a 2022 24%
24%
financial impact
2021 22%
104 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 105
Strategic
report
How do different regions fare in their risk and preparedness?
Client-level Climate Risk assessment scores by region
18 Worst Best 71
Number of Governance & Gross Physical Physical Risk Gross Transition Transition Risk
2022 Assessment* clients Overall score disclosures Risk adaptation Risk Mitigation
Asia 1,335 41% 40% 66% 27% 42% 36%
Africa & Middle East 386 37% 31% 67% 21% 38% 27%
Europe & Americas 388 57% 63% 81% 47% 46% 58%
Total 2,109 43% 43% 69% 29% 42% 38%
Number of Governance & Gross Physical Physical Risk Gross Transition Transition Risk
2021 Assessment clients Overall score disclosures Risk adaptation Risk Mitigation
Asia 1,238 40% 36% 67% 27% 36% 36%
Africa & Middle East 340 38% 34% 69% 25% 33% 32%
Europe & Americas 360 51% 53% 78% 39% 37% 50%
Total 1,938 42% 39% 70% 29% 35% 38%
* Data as of Nov 22
The average overall score in our client-level Climate Risk Overall levels and consistency in the availability of climate
assessment has remained at around 43 per cent in 2022. information from public disclosures is still low, and in many
This is despite our increased coverage of clients with high cases absent, which highlights the importance of carrying
Climate Risk scores. out direct engagement with our clients.
Scores were on average better in developed economies and
Benefits from the client engagement
regions (EU, US, UK) and on average lower in the emerging
We learned a lot from undertaking the client assessments,
markets (AAME), and this observation was seen consistently
and so did our clients. The benefits included:
across the assessment pillars. This is driven by the increased
level of climate policy and regulation in the developed • Improvement of our data coverage, especially where this
economies and regions; however, clients in these markets are was not publicly available, and strengthening the quality
also subject to higher expectations and scrutiny as a result. of our risk assessments and modelling capabilities. The
client-level risk assessments are now being integrated into
Physical Risk adaptation scored the lowest across all five
the CCIB Credit Risk underwriting process.
questionnaire sections, indicating a low readiness of
corporates to potential climate-related events, while gross • Clients were interested in seeing their Climate Risk profiles,
Physical Risk scores decreased to 69 per cent in 2022 from as well as the tools and methodologies we use to quantify
70 per cent in 2021. This is driven by an increased assessment their Transition Risk. They were also interested in how to
coverage in our Asia region, where there is a higher frequency improve their climate-related reporting and disclosures.
of physical risk hazards (e.g. storms and flooding).
• Internal capability-building of our client bankers and risk
teams, with all affected frontline staff required to complete
internal climate-risk training.
Strategic report Sustainability
Vulnerable sectors to Climate Risk Caution about the metrics
Climate change impacts almost all the sectors within the Scenario-based potential credit downgrades are one
economy. However, we note that there are certain sectors that approach for estimating future Transition Risk. The probability
are more vulnerable to climate risks under different Transition of default metrics that inform potential credit downgrades
Risk and Physical Risk scenarios. capture the potential impact to clients’ financials under
different transition scenarios.
Our approach to Transition Risk assessment is data-led,
covering a broad range of sectors and at a company level The potential credit downgrades estimated do not factor in
where data is available and use of proxies in absence of the transition mitigation plans that our clients and the Group
granular information. We use a climate-change scenario will undertake over the next 30 years and represent the gross
model, which helps us to assess potential credit-grade risks we are exposed to.
movements for our corporate clients over a 30-year time
The results indicate a ‘what if’ analysis, and not a ‘what is likely
horizon for a range of scenarios ranging from NGFS scenarios
to happen’ view. As climate action increases globally, clients,
as well as the IEA scenarios. This is based on a sample of
sovereigns and banks are likely to take additional mitigation
2,388 corporate client entities covering 53 per cent of
measures to manage transition risks.
corporate good book on net nominal basis. We have used
the MSCI Market Classification to assign countries or regions A 30-year period inherently brings challenges around
as developed or emerging markets. forecasting likely outcomes, due to the uncertainties
associated with the speed and direction of transition,
including breakthrough technological developments,
sovereign policies and management responses.
Projected potential average minor notch credit grade downgrade by 2050 based on our climate scenario analysis of the
in-scope sample corporate portfolio*
Developed Markets Emerging Markets
IEA IEA
IEA Net Sustainable IEA NGFS IEA Net Sustainable IEA
Zero Develop- Announced NGFS NGFS “Hot Zero Develop- Announced NGFS NGFS NGFS
Emissions ment Pledges Orderly Disorderly House“ Emissions ment Pledges Orderly Disorderly “Hot House“
Automobiles 0 0 0 1 2 1 0 0 0 1 2 1
and components
Construction 0 0 0 1 2 1 0 0 0 1 2 1
Consumer 0 0 0 1 1 1 0 0 0 1 2 1
durables and
apparel
CRE 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 1 1
Metals and 1 1 0 2 3 1 1 0 0 2 2 1
mining
Oil and gas 9 7 3 8 8 1 7 5 3 5 5 1
Telecom 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1
Transportation 2 1 1 2 3 1 1 1 0 3 3 1
Utilities 1 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 1 0
Total portfolio 1 1 0 2 2 1 1 0 0 1 2 1
* Data as of Nov 22
Insights
Climate risks are likely to impact our portfolios disproportionately, depending on the region and sector. Fossil fuel
dependent sectors that are most sensitive to emissions reduction policies are likely to see larger credit downgrades
over a 30-year period. Oil and gas, Metals and mining, Transportation, Automotive and Commercial Real Estate are
the sectors most impacted in the NGFS scenarios, while the oil and gas sector is likely to be most impacted under
the IEA scenarios. Compared with our 2021 disclosures, the impact is relatively muted given the scenario selection
and underlying scenario pathways being more benign as provided in the NGFS and IEA scenario datasets.
106 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 107
Strategic
report
Sectors exposed to Transition Risk • Shipping, such as freighting services as well as entities that
The vulnerable industries list identified below is based on the maintain and operate ports and terminals.
expected increase in potential additional costs driven by
• Automobiles, including the production and manufacture of
adopting new technology, changing energy mix towards automobiles and their components, as well as any related
renewables and associated technology adoption costs as well
service companies.
as an application of a carbon price over a long-term horizon
which will eventually impact the companies’ ability to remain
Sectors exposed to Physical Risk
profitable in the long run.
Below vulnerable industries are shortlisted based on expected
Sectors most impacted by Transition Risk include: physical damage to the industry over a longer time horizon.
Real Estate activities: One of the sectors that is most likely to
be impacted is Real Estate activities. Given the nature of the
asset-backed lending, an increased frequency and severity
Oil and gas, including coal and the manufacture of refined of acute weather events and increase in chronic risks will
petroleum products. Industry efforts to decarbonise are significantly increase damage costs that the Real Estate
currently supported by switching to gas, biofuels, hydrogen portfolio will be exposed to if adaptation measures taken
and renewables, as well as leveraging technologies such as are not significant.
Carbon Capture and other emissions abatement projects.
Manufacture of food and agricultural products: Agriculture is
The oil and gas sector plays a central role in global efforts
highly vulnerable to climate change and therefore from the
to decarbonise, with several of our clients having already
impact higher carbon emissions can have on local climate
committed to decarbonisation targets, most with carbon
and the environment. Dry summers or heavy rainfall seasons
intensity targets for Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. Another
could dramatically impact crops, leading to significant
linked sector that is likely to be impacted is the Commodity
fluctuations in profitability and risks for companies throughout
Traders linked to upstream and downstream supply chains
the supply chain.
for Oil and gas.
The impact in developed markets is found to be higher than
that in emerging markets. This is driven by higher regional
carbon prices in developed markets which lead to a higher
number of defaults over the next 30 years.
Power: Our focus remains on selectively financing grid
expansion and renewable energy, recognising that these are
Reputational and Sustainability Risk
key enabling technologies that support the transition towards
greener sources of power. Switching to abated gas will be Climate Risk is considered within the Reputational and
key in the short-term to support the transition away from Sustainability Risk Framework, for our corporate clients,
thermal coal. through an assessment of a client's ability to meet their own
climate related commitments, as well as satisfy the Group's
public ambitions and position statements as well as its
responsibilities for ESG risk management.
Metals and mining: This sector provides raw materials that We have continued to perform additional client-level due
support much of the global economy including those required diligence leveraging our Climate Risk questionnaires where
for building and scaling clean energy technologies at the rate possible to identify additional Reputational Risk from climate-
required in the NZ scenario. The sector contributes around related factors.
12 per cent of global emissions (Scope 1 and 2), of which Asia, This additional due diligence is conducted by the Group
Africa and the Middle East contribute more than 75 per cent. Climate Risk team for (i) clients in our high Transition Risk
Structural changes in demand, combined with financial and and Phase 1 net zero sectors (Oil and gas, Power, Metals and
regulatory pressures, are driving increased awareness of the mining), (ii) clients with a coal nexus1 as well as (iii) those that
need for companies in this sector to decarbonise operations. have been assessed at client level as high Climate Risk. Given
Some of our clients have already committed to net zero the lack of attribution for Physical Risk events, the assessment
targets and we are working with them to reduce their concentrates on Transition Risk. The assessment focuses on
emissions through financing transition technologies. three pillars covering both client and transaction level aspects:
Client level
• Temperature alignment scoring and a comparison to the
Transportation: This covers a range of sub-sectors that client’s peers.
primarily rely on the burning of fossil fuels such as gasoline
• Client-level transition readiness and robustness of plans
and diesel to deliver its direct and indirect services. Burning
from Climate Risk Questionnaires or through desktop
fuels directly results in the release of CO and other emissions
2 assessments
into the atmosphere and contribute significantly to Scope 3
emissions on many other industries.
Transaction level
These sub-sectors consist of: • Emissions impact of transactions considering both internal
and regional contexts.
• Aviation, such as airlines and air transport entities
themselves, aircraft manufacturers as well as air transport
services, such as airports and ground staff.
* Data as of Nov 22
1 As defined by the Group’s public Position Statement to only provide financial services to clients who, by 2030, are less than 5% dependent on thermal coal
(based on % revenue).
Strategic report Sustainability
• Of the case reviews completed, an increase in Reputational We have also set a Risk Appetite for our exposure
Risk rating was suggested for ~13 per cent of transactions. concentration to clients with a high-temperature alignment
These consisted of companies in both the oil and gas and combined with low-transition readiness.
manufacturing sectors, primarily looking to procure coal or
We use temperature alignment as a metric to inform our
other high-carbon emitting products for manufacturing,
client-level Climate Risk assessment, which is part of the
production or wholesale purposes. In addition, some entities
Reputational and Sustainability Risk reviews for clients and
with high temperature alignment scores and no clear
transactions as mentioned above. Temperature alignment is
transition plan were raised as having additional risk and
one way to consider a company’s impact on climate change
rating increases recommended.
and an approach to estimate the emissions profile of our
The above-mentioned due diligence is in addition to wider clients. It is calculated based on emission intensities and
existing environmental and social (E&S) risk management volume of hydrocarbons produced. It maps the company’s
processes as well as our oversight against our Position forward-looking carbon intensity and hydrocarbon
Statements and Prohibited Activities list. During 2022, we production outlook (where applicable) against a
have enhanced this E&S process through the Environmental temperature alignment score.
& Social Risk Assessment (ESRA) to identify clients and
We assessed the weighted average temperature alignment
transactions which may be more susceptible to reputational
(WATA) of 2,388 corporate client entities (covering 53 per cent
risk by assessing clients’ level of commitment and strategy
of corporate good book on net nominal basis) by high-carbon
to manage climate change as well as their level of
sector, projected to 2030. As part of our 2023 modelling
alignment to international standards of greenhouse gas
roadmap, we are also looking to develop an in-house
emissions reporting.
methodology to model temperature alignment and overall
This is intended to ensure a greater level of oversight of clients’ reduce reliance on third-party modelling capabilities.
readiness to manage climate change and the limitations
on business activities that could result in a significant shift Caution about the metrics
in stakeholder views (from both environmental and social • Temperature alignment is an emerging concept, and
impact) and/or negative perception by investors and industry-wide standards on methodology are still evolving.
the market. We expect our approach to evolve in line with best practice.
Where negative perception exists or there is exposure to • Client-level emissions were only available for about 37 per
clients that do not comply with E&S criteria, reviews are cent of corporate clients, so sector average proxies were
conducted at a client level to identify root causes and propose used for the remaining entities. In 2023, we aim to refresh
mitigation plans, which are agreed with the relationship existing assessments as well as expand our coverage to
manager. These may involve client engagement, commitment c.4,000 clients. The client assessments not only help form
from clients to take corrective action in the context of their a view of the overall Climate Risk vulnerabilities and
business, or may result in potential run down if corrections readiness for clients but provide a tool for data gathering
cannot be achieved. and analysis of the underlying themes that drive Climate
Risk and its mitigations. Additionally, expanded coverage
Additionally, where specific criteria in Position Statements are
from the existing vendor engagement will help to bridge
not fully met or there are individual clients that do not comply
the data gaps.
with the enhanced E&S criteria, these may be deemed to
have high/very high reputational risks and are escalated to
the Group Responsibility and Reputational Risk Committee
(GRRRC) for client and transactional determinations.
Insights
• Our overall average is 3.25⁰C, indicating that our
portfolio is largely in line with the current global
emissions and temperature trajectory.
• Compared to other sectors within our portfolio,
Utilities and CRE have a higher temperature
alignment compared to other sectors, given the
dependence on high-carbon emitting production,
but our portfolio temperature alignment for these
4.5 sectors is below the sector average.
4.0
3.5 • Compared to the previous year, average sector 3.0 temperature alignment scores have increased
2.5 across most of the sectors. This increase is driven by
2.0 improvements in both emission data coverage for
1.5 our clients (i.e. reduced use of proxies) and changes
1.0 in the third-party temperature alignment scoring
0.5 methodology. A maximum increase of 26 per cent
0.0
for CRE is observed where WATA score has increased
from 3.1 in 2021 to 3.8 in 2022. Telecommunication
(26 per cent increase) and Consumer durables and
apparel (24 per cent increase) are other notable
sectors with an increase in WATA.
108 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
)C⁰(
ATAW
seitilitU G&O noitatropsnarT ERC noitcurtsnoC remusnoC selbaruD lerappA
&
selibomotuA stnenopmoC
&
smoceleT &
slateM
gniniM 1srehtO
Weighted average temperature alignment (WATA) – 2030
by client sectors
3.84 3.84 3.56 3.49 3.27 3.05 3.12 2.98 3.25
2.81
1 The weighted average of approximately 20 other sectors to which the Group
has the lowest net nominal exposure
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 109
Strategic
report
Country Risk
The Group has developed a set of Physical and Transition risk Insight
rankings, to identify from a set of 165 sovereigns globally that • For Physical Risk, the bulk of exposure is located in
are deemed most vulnerable and least ready to adapt and sovereigns which score in the top half (buckets 1 to 5),
mitigate climate-related Physical and Transition risks. with over 2 per cent in the two lowest categories
(buckets 9 and 10).
• The Physical Risk rankings are based on a set of publicly
available scores such as ND-Gain Country Index and • Similarly, for Transition Risk, the bulk of exposure is
GermanWatch Climate Risk Index, as well as S&P Global located in sovereigns which score in the top half,
Ratings and Moody’s Investors Service. with less than 1 per cent in the two lowest categories
(buckets 9 and 10).
• The Transition Risk rankings are based on an internally
developed methodology which comprises a combination • This indicates that the Group is overall well positioned
of both climate and macroeconomic data. in managing its climate-related physical and
transition risks. The combined exposures in the two
The two pillars underlying this assessment include the
worst categories are also well below the Group's
Sovereigns’ Gross Transition Risks (such as reliance on
current Risk Appetite escalation levels.
carbon-intense sectors, import and export of fossil fuels, gap
to fill to meet 2030 Nationally Determined Contributions
targets) and Transition Risk Mitigations established (such as
Caution about the metrics
low-carbon energy production in place, imports of low-carbon
• The rankings are informed by external indices.
technology, governments’ ability and credibility to support the
transition). The two pillars are further combined to obtain a – Physical Risk rankings are based on four scores (ND-Gain
measure of Net Transition Risk for each market. Country Index/GermanWatch Climate Risk Index/S&P
Global Ratings/Moody’s Investors Service)
Based on their aggregated Physical and Transition risk
scores, sovereigns are split into decile-based rankings. These – Transition Risk rankings are based on Gross Transition Risk
rankings are a qualitative input to the Group Country Risk and Transition Risk Mitigation factors, with data sourced
reviews for sovereign credit grades and limits, inputs to various from World Bank/OECD/S&P/International Monetary
climate-related stress tests and computation of Country Fund/Fitch Ratings
Risk Benchmarks and Risk Appetite. They are also used as
• The computation inputs are based on latest available data
proxies for missing client asset location information in Climate
which may be dated. Proxies have been used where data
Risk Assessments.
for the sovereign is not available.
• The ranking uses equally spaced decile scores and provides
the results in an ordinal manner. While the simplicity helps
in adoption and provides the relative position of the
sovereigns, other systems may provide more information.
Physical and Transition Risk rankings methodological deep dives
Assessing markets’
Transition Risk
vulnerabilities to climate
change and readiness to adapt
German
ND-Gain
Watch Climate
Country Index
Risk Index
Physical Risk
Moody’s
S&P Global
Investor
Rating
Services
noitisnart
ot
decaf
ksiR
noitisnart
ot
ytilibA
noitisnarT
ssorG
ksiR
noitisnarT
srotcaf
ksiR
srotcaf
noitagitiM
Gauging markets’ historical
losses as a result of extreme
weather events
Reiliance on fossil Carbon footprint of
fuel imports and imports and efforts
exports
Emission footprint Energy efficiency
per capita levels
Governments’ Governments’ fiscal
effectiveness in flexibility to support
achieving targets the transition
Low-carbon energy Imports of
production capacity low-carbon
technology products
Measuring markets’ exposure Measuring markets’ exposure
to extreme weather events to extreme weather events
Strategic report Sustainability
Gross Country Risk (GCR) exposure distribution as at 31 December 2022 across the Physical Risk categories
Category 1 (Best) 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 (Worst)
Exposures % 11.21 27.08 20.61 4.71 18.17 8.30 1.83 5.83 1.14 1.12
Gross Country Risk (GCR) exposure distribution as at 31 December 2022 across the Transition Risk categories
Category 1 (Best) 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 (Worst)
Exposures % 3.07 13.72 25.11 26.27 16.20 6.85 7.49 0.74 0.37 0.18
Physical and Transition risk rankings distributions
Bucket distribution
1 5 10
Physical Risk Transition Risk
Operational and Technology Risk
Insight
Standard Chartered’s own operations
• Outputs from the Munich Re Location Risk
We perform granular Physical Risk assessment across all our Intelligence platform show that 22 per cent of the
own operating sites (offices, branches and data centres). Group’s locations globally are in locations of extreme
From a risk management and mitigation perspective, all new flood risk, 15 per cent with extreme storm risk and
properties (branches, offices) onboarded within the Group are none at risk from wildfire.
assessed for Physical Risk vulnerabilities. A key development
this year has been that all material Third-Party Corporate • Longer-term risk (up to 2100) from sea-level rise under
Service arrangements in scope for Business Continuity RCP 8.5 are minimal, being below 5 per cent.
Management controls are subject to Climate Risk assessment • Not surprisingly, given our footprint, a higher
as part of third-party continuity plans. proportion (26 per cent for flood, 20 per cent for
We analysed approximately 1,000 of our operating locations storm) of the Group’s locations in Asia are subject
across branches, offices, data centres and other sites to assess to extreme physical risks. A total of 16 per cent of
the gross Physical Risk profile. locations in Europe & Americas are subject to
flood risks, which is entirely driven by the locations
Caution about the metrics in America.
The metrics are based on outputs from Munich Re’s natural • In the locations where weather events such as storms
catastrophe model and do not assume adaptation measures or cyclones are frequent, the buildings are built with
such as building quality, hazard protection infrastructure this in mind.
(such as flood defences) or government adaptation policies.
• Mitigation options include property insurance and
operating a diversified location strategy, splitting
delivery and therefore reducing concentration risk.
Assessment of gross Physical Risk at our own operating locations*
Operating locations at extreme Physical Risk (%)
Physical risk event Time horizon Scenario Korea UAE Indonesia Globally
Flood (Acute) 2022 N/A 26% 10% 16% 22%
Wildfire (Acute) 0% 0% 0% 0%
Storm (Acute) 20% 1% 5% 15%
Sea-level rise (Chronic) 2100 RCP 8.5 1% 4% 0% 2%
Number of operating locations 734 223 37 994
* Data as of Nov 22
110 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 111
Strategic
report
Traded Risk account and client portfolio concentrations. Additionally, an
We manage the Climate Risk of Traded Risk exposures as part existing global stress scenario, ‘Global Inflation’, was updated
of the Traded Risk stress-testing framework. Climate risks are to incorporate the impact of transition effects from climate
incorporated within Traded Risk Stress Risk Appetite. change policies, notably inelastic carbon energy supplies.
Description
Climate-related stress scenarios are designed to include
Traded Risk: Potential stress loss to trading and fair value
Transition Risk effects from climate change policies and
Market Risk banking book exposures from extreme
shocks to markets due to supply and demand disruption
stress loss from weather events, including increased impact
from physical climate events.
physical climate and intensity of hurricanes and severe winter
Positions booked in the trading and fair value banking event
books are in scope, with a time horizon for stress shocks of Traded Risk: Potential increase in counterparty credit
between three days and one year depending on underlying increase in stressed exposures from extreme weather,
market liquidity. Counterparty including increased impact and intensity of
Credit Risk stress hurricanes and severe winter
From a risk management and mitigation process, two physical exposures from
climate stress scenarios – ‘Hurricane Season’ and ‘Winter Cold physical climate
Wave’ – were introduced after considering the impact of event
extreme weather events on commodities prices and own
Compliance Risk Many regulators across our footprint have proposed or set
We have established a process for tracking various Climate supervisory expectations on climate/environmental risk
Risk-related regulatory developments and obligations set by management. Those expectations are broadly aligned in
financial service regulators at Group and regional/country principle, but local implementations could vary. We have
level, with roles and responsibilities set out in the Climate actively worked with industry bodies and regulators to
Risk Policy. promote consistency in policy making around the globe.
Regulatory requirements or enhancements needed Over 2022, we have developed horizon-scanning capabilities
are recorded through workplans across various teams. for climate-related regulations as well as a global register. We
The workplans are coordinated and monitored through on-boarded external counsel to assist with horizon-scanning
various working groups by having the relevant accountable of ESG-related regulations for both Group and 13 of our key
executives participate in the relevant forums. markets in standard regulatory scanning and identification.
Aggregating inputs from both external counsel and internal
The processes of implementing regulations or addressing markets, a global obligations register has been established
regulatory feedback is also monitored and challenged by to provide a complete view of the current obligations and
the relevant governance committees. upcoming regulatory requirements. We have documented an
operating model clarifying roles and responsibilities across
the Group and our markets to establish clear ownership of
sustainability regulations.
Basel Committee UK – BoE/PRA US – OCC, FDIC, Fed
Principles of Supervisory OCC, FDIC and Fed
effective climate risk Statement on consultations in
management in Jun Enhancing climate Feb, May and Dec
22 and FAQ Dec 22 risk management 22 on climate risk
(SS3/19) management
BoE 21 stress testing Fed announced
including climate pilot climate stress
impact testing in 23
EU – ECB AME region India – RBI
Supervisory guide Central Bank of Survey on climate
on climate and Kenya guidelines on risk and sustainable
environmental risk climate risk in Oct 21 finance in March
management in Dubai FSA to isssue 22 followed by a
Nov 20, effective draft guidelines on discussion paper
immediately climate risk in Sep 21 in Sept 22. RBI-led
E st C re B s - s le t d e s c t l i i n m g ate C O e m n a tr n a a l B d a o n p k t e o d f c a l n im al a y t s e is s e c x e p n e a c r t io e d
ECB report on state the Basel principles
of readiness of EU in climate risk
banks management in
Dec 21
Australia – APRA Singapore – MAS Malaysia – BNM Philippines – BSP Hong Kong – HKMA Japan – JFSA China – CBIRC
Climate change Guidelines on Guidelines on Draft environmental Supervisory Manual Guidelines on Green Finance
financial risk environmental environmental risk management on climate risk climate risk guidelines issued in
management risk management risk management guidelines in Sep 21 management management in Jun 22
guidelines in Nov 21 published in Dec 20, published in Dec 20, Draft circular on published in Dec 21, Jul 22
Climate scenario effective Q2 22 effective Q2 22 climate risk stress effective Dec 22
Nepal – BoN
analysis conducted Climate impact Climate impact testing Aug 22 Pilot climate stress
in 22 included in 2022 included in 2022 testing conducted Guidelines on
industry-wide stress industry-wide stress in 2021 climate risk
testing excercise testing excercise management in
Feb 22
Strategic report Sustainability
Treasury Risk
From a capital perspective, Climate Risk considerations have
been part of our Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment
Process (ICAAP) submissions since 2019. Our approach for
assessing the Climate Risk impact on capital adequacy has
improved from qualitative judgements to quantitative
simulations with the availability of tools and greater
understanding of our portfolio.
For the 2022 ICAAP submission, we moved towards a more
quantitative approach comparing the worst (annualised)
five-year loss period from all three NGFS scenarios to the
projected peak losses from the 2022 Group ICAAP. The Late
Action scenario was identified to drive the maximum
difference in losses; however, this was lower than credit losses
experienced under the ICAAP macroeconomic stress scenario,
concluding that additional capital add-on was not required
for Climate Risk. The severity and potential impact on our
clients’ loan impairment level under climate scenarios was
lower than the ICAAP scenario and we determined that an
additional capital buffer was not required.
The approach for incorporating climate related credit risks
into the Group’s ICAAP is set to continue using scenario driven
analysis to best judge the financial impact of Climate Risk.
It is envisaged however that as understanding of Climate
Risk management and potential forward-looking scenarios
develops, this may lead to evolution in our approach and
assessment including using a wide range of scenario
outcomes to determine any potential capital related impact
in the future.
From a Liquidity Risk perspective, we conducted a proof-of-
concept analysis to assess climate risk-related vulnerabilities
and readiness of approximately 77 per cent of the corporate
liquidity portfolio, leveraging the client outreach and data
gathering exercise being undertaken on the asset side.
The analysis showed that exposure concentration in the
‘high transition risk and low readiness’ bucket is broadly
comparable to what we see for our top corporate client
exposures on the asset side. Liquidity providers with high
transition risk are from the Oil and gas, Pharma, Transport
storage – others and Utilities sectors. We will continue to
enhance our analysis capabilities and exposure coverage
through 2023, including embedding climate related liquidity
considerations within our Internal Liquidity Adequacy
Assessment Process.
112 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 113
Strategic
report
Governance of our
Sustainability Agenda
Climate change and its associated risks, Since 2019, the Board has approved a Climate Risk Appetite
opportunities and organisational implications Statement (RAS) annually to reflect both our aim to measure
and manage the financial and non-financial risks arising from
are overseen by the Group’s Board, Management
climate change, and to reduce emissions related to the
Team and multiple supporting sub-committees. Group’s own activities and those associated with the financing
of clients seeking to align with the Paris Agreement. In
The structure of the Group’s Board and Management Team can be
found on pages 138 to 145. November 2021, we introduced a suite of Risk Appetite (RA)
metrics and thresholds to monitor and manage the exposure
concentration in our portfolio across key risk types.
Standard Chartered PLC Board
Throughout 2022, Board activities have included reviewing
The Board is responsible for the long-term success of the
and guiding strategic decisions on our approach to reach
Group and its supporting committees consider climate-
net zero financed emissions by 2050.
related risks and opportunities when reviewing and guiding
strategic decisions. For more information on our governance structure please see page
184 in the Directors' remunerations report.
Structural overview of Standard Chartered PLC’s climate-related governance
Standard Chartered PLC Board
Board Risk Committee Culture and Sustainability Committee
Audit Committee
(BRC) (CSC)
Group Risk Committee Group Management Team
(GRC) (MT)
Climate Risk Management Group Responsibility and Reputational Sustainability
Committee (CRMC) Risk Committee (GRRRC) Forum
Sustainable Finance Governance and Other Committees
Management Team The Global Head, ERM has also appointed a dedicated
Each member of the Group Management Team is responsible Managing Director, Global Head of Climate Risk and Net Zero
for strategically driving climate considerations within their Oversight. Risk Framework Owners for the impacted Principal
geography, business segment or function in line with our net Risk Types (PRTs) and integral component of the Enterprise
zero pathway. Risk Management Framework (ERMF) are responsible for
embedding Climate Risk requirements within their respective
In response to the Prudential Regulation Authority’s (PRA’s) risk types.
Supervisory Statement 3/19, ‘enhancing banks’ and insurers’
approaches to managing the financial risks from climate Governance committees and steering groups
change’, and responsibility for identifying and managing
Several committees within the Group support the Board and
financial risks from climate change sits with the Group Chief
Management Team on the management and monitoring of
Risk Officer (CRO) as the appropriate Senior Management
climate change and its associated impacts.
Function (SMF) under the Senior Managers Regime (SMR).
The Group CRO is supported by the Global Head, Enterprise
Risk Management (ERM) who has day-to-day oversight and
central responsibility for the Group’s second line of defence
against Climate Risk.
Strategic report Sustainability
Governance committees and steering groups with responsibility for climate-related issues
Climate-related
agenda frequency Key purposes and responsibilities
Governance body Chair and inputs related to climate Climate-related topic 2022
Board Standard Twice during • Oversee the Group’s overall net zero • Discussed and reviewed the
Chartered 2022. approach. Group’s net zero pathway,
PLC Group Climate Risk • Responsible for the net zero pathway approved its approach and
Chairman updates delivered shareholder advisory vote proposal. reviewed the progress on
via Group CRO delivery.
Reports • Completed training focusing
on how Climate Risk is being
embedded across the three lines
of defence.
Board Risk Independent Three times a • Provide oversight of the Group’s key • Reviewed, discussed and
Committee non-Executive year. risks on behalf of the Board and is challenged the Group’s
(BRC) Director Climate Risk the primary Risk Committee at the Management scenario analysis.
updates to BRC in Board level that oversees Climate • Reviewed and recommended
Group reports Risk. Group Climate RAS to the Board.
seven times a • Consider the Group’s Risk Appetite • Reviewed Climate Risk
year, delivered via and make recommendations to the Information Report (RIR)
Group Chief Risk Board on the Risk Appetite quarterly.
Officer’s Reports Statement (RAS).
• Monitored adherence to RA
Quarterly Climate • Assess risk types (including Climate metrics including any relevant
Risk information Risk) and the effectiveness of risk breaches.
provided as part management frameworks and
of the Risk policies.
Information • Provide oversight and challenge
Report, covering of the design and execution of
key metrics climate-related stress testing.
based on the
concentration of
transition and
physical risks in
our portfolio.
Culture and Independent Four times in • Oversee the Group’s overall • Discussed ESG benchmarking
Sustainability non-Executive 2022. sustainability strategy. and indices progress, including
Committee (CSC) Director • Monitor the development and via CDP climate change survey.
implementation of the sustainability • Reviewed Group Sustainability
framework to align with the Group’s Strategy (including climate).
net zero approach. • Discussed Board engagement
protocols on sustainability.
Audit Committee Independent Once in 2022 • Responsible for oversight of the • Reviewed proposal to integrate
non-Executive (Q4). This will be Group’s quantitative reporting TCFD-aligned disclosures and
Director quarterly from metrics. metrics into Annual Report and
2023. agreed this approach.
Group Risk Group Chief Three times • Ensure the effective management • Received update on Climate
Committee Risk Officer during 2022. of Group risk in support of the Biennial Exploratory Scenario
(GRC) (CRO) Climate Risk Group’s Strategy. Round 2.
updates in Group • Oversee implementation of the • Received update on Climate
CRO and CRIR Enterprise Risk Management Risk embedding and the Climate
reports 11 times Framework. Risk profile as part of the Risk
per year. • Review Risk Appetite and approve Information Report.
Management Team level Risk • Approved the Management
Appetite metrics and thresholds Team level Climate RA metrics
for Principal Risk Types (PRT) and monitored adherence
and integrated risks, including to these.
Climate Risk.
114 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 115
Strategic
report
Climate-related
agenda frequency Key purposes and responsibilities
Governance body Chair and inputs related to climate Climate-related topic 2022
Climate Risk Group CRO Three times in • Oversee development and Drove delivery of:
Management 2022. (CRMC implementation of the Climate • Climate stress testing and
Committee commenced in Risk framework. management scenario analysis.
(CRMC) July 2022) and will • Oversee all aspects of risk • Progress associated with
be held six times management practices for climate- integrating Climate Risk across
a year in 2023. related financial and non-financial all impacted risk types.
Note: Prior to its risks, including leadership and
• Climate risk-related disclosures,
formalisation as a oversight in developing and
including those discussed in this
Committee, there effectively implementing the
report.
were also three Group’s Climate Risk management
Climate Risk framework. • Climate Risk research with
Management • Provide structured governance Imperial College London.
Forum (CRMF) around engagement with relevant • Regulatory feedback and
meetings held PRTs impacted by or linked to supervision.
in 2022. Climate Risk. • Climate-related management
Climate Risk information and RA metrics.
Information
• Approach to delivering training
Report (RIR)
and upskilling staff on Climate
tabled quarterly,
Risk across the Group.
covering key
metrics based on
the concentration
of transition and
physical risks in
our portfolio.
Group Group Head, Monthly • Oversee and approve climate- Reviewed:
Responsibility Conduct, related Position Statements • Exposure to clients that do not
and Reputational Financial including sector-specific transition comply with enhanced E&S
Risk Committee Crime and criteria and associated risk tolerance criteria.
(GRRRC) Compliance thresholds
• Transactions where Position
Statements are not fully met.
• Transactions with high or very
high Reputational Risk with
climate change factors.
Sustainability Group Head, The Forum meets • Oversee development and Reviewed:
Forum Corporate eight times per implementation of the Group’s • New, existing, and updated
Affairs Brand annum. sustainability strategy, including Sustainability Aspirations.
& Marketing climate.
• Processes for integration of
(Jan-Aug); • Guide a coordinated Group-wide Climate Risk into Reputational
Chief approach to key sustainability and Sustainability Risk.
Sustainability themes, including climate change.
Officer • Approved the approach to the
(Sep-Dec) Group’s own ESG ratings.
• Discussed Group-wide
climate internal and external
engagement programmes.
Strategic report Sustainability
Climate-related
agenda frequency Key purposes and responsibilities
Governance body Chair and inputs related to climate Climate-related topic 2022
Sustainable Global Head Monthly • Provide leadership, governance and Reviewed and approved:
Finance of Sustainable oversight in delivering the Group’s • Sustainable finance products
Governance Finance sustainable finance offerings. including sustainable deposits,
Committee • Review and endorse sustainable green mortgages, sustainable
finance products. trade finance products,
• Guide the Group in identifying and sustainable finance wealth
embracing opportunities and management products.
reviewing the reputational risks • Green and sustainable finance
relating to sustainable finance transactions including
including any greenwashing risks transactions with climate-
on sustainable finance products. related KPIs.
• The Group’s approach to
launching sustainable and
climate products.
• The Group’s Green and
Sustainable Product Framework,
encompassing a range of
climate finance activities.
• The Group’s update to the
2022 Sustainable Finance
Impact Report.
Sustainable Global Head Monthly • Provide strategic direction for the • Discussed Sustainable
Finance Steering of Sustainable Corporate, Commercial and Finance trends.
Committee Finance Institutional Banking (CCIB) • Monitored and tracked progress
sustainability agenda. of sustainable finance targets.
• Coordinate and scale CCIB products, • Coordinate and scale
segments and markets. CCIB products, segments
and markets.
Net Zero Net Zero Weekly • Drive the operationalisation of the • Coordinated the embedding
Operating Transition Group’s net zero pathway. of net zero pathway across
Steering Programme the bank.
Committee1 Director
Consumer, Private Global Head, Bi-monthly • Provide strategic direction for the • Discussed Sustainable
and Business Transfor- Consumer, Private and Business Finance trends.
Banking mation and Banking (CPBB) sustainability • Tracked progress of Sustainable
Sustainability Strategic agenda. Finance targets and discussed
Steering Group Initiatives further opportunities.
(CPBB)
• Updates and progress on
CPBB net zero plans.
1 The Net Zero and overall Sustainability governance structure will be renewed and refreshed in 2023.
Additionally, we are expanding governance and risk management at the regional, country and segment levels to better identify
the risk and actively manage their portfolios.
116 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 117
Strategic
report
Assessing and managing climate within our business
Climate risks and opportunities are a growing priority across the Group. Mulitple different teams across our businesses and
functions are either dedicated to, or spend a proportion of their time working on climate-related activities.
Employees dedicated to supporting Climate Risk and opportunities
Purpose and responsibilities
Line of defence Team related to climate
First line Sustainability Strategy Formed in July 2022 under the new CSO, this team manages the overall Group
and Net Zero Project sustainability strategy including external disclosures and engagement with NGOs
Management Office and Policy Coalitions, with team members actively participating in and convening
the Group’s participation in industry platforms and initiatives.
The team acts as Secretariat to the Sustainability Forum helping shape the
direction of the Group’s action on sustainability and leads the Group’s net zero
strategy and implementation. As of 2023, this team will serve as the host of the
Group Net Zero Programme Management Office (PMO).
Sustainable Finance Comprises Sustainable Finance Origination and Strategic Initiatives teams who
actively collaborate to identify, capture and manage opportunities regarding
Climate Finance.
The Transition finance team also sits within this structure and supports our clients
with their decarbonisation financing needs.
ESRM Responsible for setting and operationalising the Group’s sector-specific Position
Statements and working with clients in all our carbon-intensive sectors to avoid,
mitigate and manage any potential negative impacts of our financing.
Climate Risk Analysis Formed in 2022. Conducts data collection and analysis for the client-level Climate
(including Advisory and Risk assessments for all in-scope clients.
Analyst teams)
Second line Climate Risk Forms part of the Group Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) function. Conducts
periodic horizon scanning, looking at both top-down risk identification of
emerging industry themes and regulatory expectations, and bottom-up risk
identification through impacted processes.
Reputational and Responsible for overseeing and challenging the first line of defence in respect of
Sustainability Risk (RSR) risk management activities of reputational and climate-related risks.
Other Principal Risk Types As Climate Risk is integrated into impacted PRT frameworks, responsibility for
second line ownership of Climate Risk specific to each Principle Risk Type is
delegated to the relevant Risk Framework Owner.
Other Business Legal, Conduct Financial Provide support to the Group as necessary, including to Sustainable Finance,
Partners Crime and Compliance and Sustainability, Climate Risk and RSR.
Supply Chain Management
* Headcount is based on budgeted numbers and could change subject to ongoing recruitment. Sustainability Strategy and Net Zero Project Management Office
and Climate Risk Analysis teams didn't exist in years prior to their 2022 formation.
Strategic report Sustainability
Education and training Incentive structure
Variable remuneration is applicable to employees through
Understanding Sustainability
the Group Scorecard and the Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP).
We are encouraging all employees across our footprint to
This is overseen by the Board-level Remuneration Committee.
grow their understanding of sustainability and climate, how
Selected sustainability targets, including those with a climate
we embed it into our business, operations and communities,
change dimension, are incorporated into our annual Group
and how they can actively play their part in this journey. In
Scorecard which informs variable remuneration for all
April 2022, we launched our ‘Understanding Sustainability’
colleagues under our Target Total Variable Compensation
online learning, and more than 12,800 (15 per cent) of
plan, including executive directors and the Group
colleagues voluntarily completed this programme during
Management Team.
the year.
Sustainability has also been included in the 2023–25 LTIP
To recognise their engagement, we planted a tree for each
performance measures, with an increased focus on the
employee completing the training in our ‘Standard Chartered
broader impact of client activity, rather than on our internal
Forest’, which spans seven of our footprint markets and is
operations. The sustainability measures in the 2023–25
tended by local NGOs.
plan include:
Climate-related financial and non-financial risk training • Sustainable Finance income in excess of $1 billion by 2025
For Climate Risk specifically, the Board were given training • Delivery of the net zero roadmap
that provided an overview of how Climate Risk is being
embedded across the three lines of defence, as well as what • Contribution to the advancement of sustainability
this means for our clients and colleagues. ecosystem
In addition, we launched Risk-wide mandatory e-learnings, The Group scorecard includes the following for 2023:
and provided 35 hours of bespoke classroom-based training • Progress against the Group’s aim to achieve net zero
for almost 4,000 colleagues across CCIB, CPBB, Risk and Audit. by 2050
Recordings of these sessions are available to all staff to access
as convenient. • Improve community engagement through employee
volunteering participation
In Q1 2023, we intend to embed Climate Risk-related credit
training material into both our first and second line Credit In addition to the Group Scorecard and LTIP performance
Risk curricula. In addition, in partnership with our academic measures, dedicated climate and sustainability-related
partner, Imperial College London, we also aim to launch objectives apply across functional and regional scorecards
a detailed online training programme available to all including the Risk function, and individual objectives add a
impacted staff. further link between sustainability and reward. Specifically, in
relation to the delivery of core aspects of our climate change
Sustainable Finance and ESRM training approach, several individuals and teams have objectives
which impact variable remuneration.
In 2022, we focused on educating colleagues across all levels
of the Group on our net zero pathway and Sustainable
Finance initiatives. We launched foundational sustainability
and Sustainable Finance curricula across the Group; provided
dedicated training on our Sustainable Finance product suite
and Position Statements; hosted panel discussions on key
themes including greenwashing risk and ESG ratings; and
held topical sessions on net zero and Transition Finance
concepts, such as carbon capture, utilisation and storage,
and decarbonisation market trends.
In 2023, our Sustainable Finance education programmes will
accelerate. This will include the roll-out of a tiered practitioner-
level learning curriculum, and further modularisation of our
Sustainable Finance training to help us improve knowledge
and awareness across our network.
118 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 119
Strategic
report
Individuals or teams with objectives which impact variable remuneration
Individual or team Objectives/performance linkage
Chief Risk Officer (CRO) The Group CRO is responsible and accountable for Climate Risk under the Financial Conduct
Authority’s Senior Managers and Certification Regime. This includes responsibility for overseeing
the delivery of the Climate Risk workplan covering Climate Risk governance, Climate Risk
assessment, Climate Risk scenario analysis and stress testing, and Climate Risk disclosure.
These responsibilities form part of the Group CRO’s objectives, and therefore directly affect their
remuneration.
Risk The Group scorecard includes a 10 per cent weighted metric for the sustainability pillar to
achieve net zero by 2050, and another 15 per cent for Risk & Controls.
Climate Risk team Delivery of the Group’s approach to Climate Risk management, development of tools and
methodologies for risk identification, quantification, management, monitoring and reporting;
building capacity and skills for Climate Risk management across three lines of defence and
organisation wide.
Sustainable Finance team Income targets for sustainable finance strategic revenue related to sustainable finance products
and delivery of relevant Sustainability Aspirations targets.
Clean Technology team, and other Revenue targets for origination of climate finance.
climate finance origination teams
Property team Delivery of emissions reduction targets, operational net zero strategy by 2025 and Scope 1 and 2
carbon offsetting.
Supply Chain Management Delivery of business travel emission reduction targets and Scope 3 business travel carbon
offsetting.
Corporate Real Estate Partners, Setting operational KPIs and implemented incentives structures for our partners, JLL and CBRE,
JLL and CBRE who manage day-to-day property management activities. In addition, we further incentivise
our partners to accelerate activities, with the aim of achieving our targets ahead of schedule.
Metrics and targets
The data we have used provides the best available approach to making progress, notwithstanding the challenges that
exist given the incompleteness and novelty of the data sets and methodologies required. We expect the availability and
reliability of required data to improve over time, and we intend to integrate applicable improved data into our reporting
as it becomes available.
Strategic report Sustainability
Social Sustainability
While it’s clear that our main impact on society Throughout 2022, we hosted a series of awareness campaigns
and the environment is through the businesses to ensure that our colleagues understand the importance of
upholding our conduct standards and know how, and when,
we finance, we aim to be a force for good for
to Speak Up. To celebrate Whistleblowers’ Day on 23 June, we
our clients, people and communities. To us, that held a month-long global campaign themed around ‘Doing
not only means ensuring that we are minimising the Right Thing One Speak Up at a Time’, and in October
our own environmental impact, but also striving colleagues in Africa and the Middle East region ran a regional
Conduct Week. In December, we celebrated Conduct Month
to be a responsible company: utilising our skills,
and UN Anti-Corruption Day, under the theme ‘The Stands,
experience and network to fight financial crime,
Conduct and Me’, highlighting the link between the day-to-
embedding our values across the markets where day conduct of individual colleagues and the Bank’s Stands.
we operate, and investing in our people and All campaigns included interactive messages from our senior
leaders and live panel discussions designed to both set the
communities.
tone from the top and nurture it from within.
Conduct and ethics The Group Code of Conduct (the Code) remains the primary
tool through which we set our conduct expectations: it
Good conduct is critical to delivering positive outcomes for
supports all our policies, setting minimum standards and
our clients, markets and stakeholders. It’s fundamental to
reinforcing our valued and expected behaviours. It also
achieving our brand promise, here for good.
outlines a framework to help colleagues make good decisions.
Our Conduct Risk management approach has been To reinforce our shared commitment to the highest possible
strengthened since 2021 through several initiatives, including standards of conduct, each year we ask our colleagues to
launching a new annual Conduct Risk management reconsider what the Code means to them through a refresher
effectiveness review, which increased our ability to identify e-learning, and to reaffirm their commitment. In 2022,
and mitigate against Conduct Risk, and re-energising our 99.5 per cent of our colleagues completed the mandatory
engagement strategy. training and affirmation. Colleagues who are overdue without
a valid reason (i.e. for which they are given an exemption)
Our Speaking Up programme is essential to upholding our
are subject to a 40 per cent reduction in their annual variable
here for good brand promise and valued behaviours. The
compensation for the year they failed to attest.
early disclosure of concerns reduces the risk of financial and
reputational loss caused by misconduct. We encourage In 2023, we plan to refresh the Code to improve alignment
colleagues, contractors, clients, suppliers and members of the with our Stands, strengthen the link between ethics, culture
public to use our Speaking Up programme which offers secure and conduct, and intertwine the Code with the Group
and confidential channels to report known or suspected strategy. We also intend to take steps to make the Code
misconduct without fear of retaliation. Examples of concerns more accessible and relatable to all colleagues.
include breaches of regulatory requirements, breaches of
Download our Group Code of Conduct at sc.com/codeofconduct
Group policy or standards, or behaviour that has adverse and visit sc.com/speakingup to find more about how our Speaking Up
effects on colleagues and/or our reputation. programme works
The Speaking Up programme continues to be utilised across
all countries, businesses and functions, and our 2022 MyVoice
survey found that 88 per cent of employees (87 per cent in
2021) felt comfortable raising concerns through the channels.
Despite this, 2022 saw a 9.6 per cent (113 cases) decrease
noted in the volume of total disclosures via Speaking Up
channels compared with the previous period. This is a trend
noted across the industry, primarily due to the COVID-19
pandemic which continues to influence internal reporting
% colleagues affirmed commitment to Code of Conduct
trends.15
99.5
15 Navex 2022 Regional Whistleblowing Benchmark Report
120 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Strategic report Sustainability
Respecting human rights Impact in our communities
We strive to be a responsible company and safeguard human Young people across the world – women and girls in particular
rights across our business. We recognise that the global – continue to face barriers to economic inclusion. Many fall
nature of our business may expose us to the risk of modern short of their potential and become stuck in low-income
slavery and human trafficking (MSHT) in our operations, poverty. The future of work also presents challenges – an
supply chain and customer and client relationships, and we estimated 50 per cent of employees worldwide will need
are committed to identifying and mitigating these risks. reskilling by 202516, as adoption of technology increases.
Accessing the relevant training will be vital for young people.
Our approach to managing and mitigating environmental
and social risk is reflected in our Sustainability Framework, We seek to amplify our social impact and continue to support
which includes a Position Statement on Human Rights. The communities through Futuremakers, our global initiative to
framework outlines the cross-sector and thematic Position tackle youth economic inclusion. Futuremakers supports
Statements that we use to assess whether to provide disadvantaged young people, especially girls and people
financial services to our clients. These documents, informed with visual impairments, to learn new skills and improve their
by international best practice and the International Finance chances of getting a job or starting their own business.
Corporation’s (IFC) Environmental and Social Performance
In 2022, we contributed $14.7 million to Futuremakers, including
Standards, outline the cross-sector standards that form
donations from the Group and fundraising of $3.8 million from
part of the credit approval processes for CCIB clients
our employees and partners, to enable the next generation to
and transactions.
learn, earn and grow.
Our Modern Slavery Statement details our actions to tackle
With our international and local partners, including the
MSHT across our CCIB client base, supply chain and workforce.
Standard Chartered Foundation, in 2022 we reached more
In 2022, we enhanced our human rights due diligence by
than 335,000 young people through Futuremakers, including
requiring CCIB clients to provide evidence of their policies and
providing financial education to 102,248 unbanked or young
processes to manage potential human rights risks in their
people. In India, we continue to support eye health and water,
operations or supply chains. We also developed more detailed
sanitation and hygiene education (WASHE) in alignment with
guidance for clients on grievance mechanisms in line with IFC
development priorities in the market.
guidelines and UN Guiding Principles for Business and Human
Rights. We continued to work with third parties, such as the Our Futuremakers Impact Report reviews the progress we
Thun Group and Sustainable Shipping Initiative, to promote have made through Futuremakers since its launch in 2019.
coordinated action against MSHT. Highlights include reaching more than one million young
people (74 per cent women) across 43 markets and raising
We completed a risk review of our supply chain and
$78.7 million. Key results show that since 2019, 28,423 young
supplemented our MSHT assessment questionnaire with
people have entered employment; 5,202 jobs have been
geopolitical analysis. We also plan to review enhancements to
created by young entrepreneurs; and 40,615 adolescent
MSHT controls in our procurement system alongside broader
girls are more likely to continue in secondary education.
ESG requirements under review.
Collective effort is needed to accelerate progress in tackling
For our workforce, we introduced a refreshed set of Industrial
inequality and promoting economic growth. In 2022, we
Relations principles that take into consideration the
published insights from our partnership with Unilever
fundamental ILO conventions. We also expanded pay gap
supporting over 25,000 small-scale retailers affected by
reporting to include ethnicity data. Our ethnicity pay gap
COVID-19 to build more resilient businesses through
reporting covered the United Kingdom and United States,
digitisation. We joined the UK Foreign and Commonwealth
having achieved the minimum required levels of ethnicity
Development Office led Girls’ Education Skills Partnership
declared by employees in these regions to make pay gap
alongside 10 other companies, and agreed a partnership with
analysis possible.
Primark to design solutions to support the financial health of
garment sector workers.
Read our Modern Slavery Slavery Statement at
sc.com/modernslavery
Read out Human Rights Position Statement at
sc.com/positionstatements
122 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 123
Strategic
report
To inform access to finance solutions for young people,
1,270 young people from 21 markets participated in research
conducted with Business Fights Poverty and Cambridge
University. The Futuremakers Insights Paper 2022 provided
information and data for the third edition of the Futuremakers
Forum. More than 1,700 stakeholders from 61 markets
participated in this two-day virtual event to hear first-hand
from Futuremakers participants, and to explore how to
advance inclusive finance.
Over 39 per cent of our colleagues gave back to the
community through volunteering in 2022, contributing almost
50,000 days of their time to support worthwhile causes.
Our IGNITE programme aims to unlock the potential of female
talent across the Group. In 2022, we partnered with IGNITE to
extend this coaching support to Futuremakers participants
to help them change, challenge and stretch themselves in
pursuit of their goals. In addition, we hosted 12 Mentor’s Den
sessions across our markets, supporting over 300 young
people with strategic advice on personal brand, future skills
and banking services. We mobilised our colleagues to support
families affected by the floods in Pakistan and increased our
provision of three volunteering days annually to five per
colleague in the Europe region to help support displaced
people from Ukraine.
In 2023, we will set up a women entrepreneurs’ network
involving alumni of Futuremakers and expand our women’s
entrepreneurial support further across our footprint markets.
Furthermore, in alignment with our commitment to the
UN Principles for Responsible Banking, we will finalise our
impact analysis to better understand our broader impact.
This work will support us to shape our onwards Futuremakers
strategy and further increase employee volunteering support
for communities.
Read more about Futuremakers by Standard Chartered at
sc.com/futuremakers
Read our Futuremakers impact report at
sc.com/futuremakersimpact
16 World Economic Forum, The Future of Jobs Report 2020, Page 6
The content contained in the above Sustainability section (including, for the avoidance of doubt, the TCFD disclosures)
of this Annual Report is subject to the statements included in (i) the ‘Forward-Looking Statements’ section; and (ii) the
‘Basis of Preparation and Caution Regarding Data Limitations’ section provided under ‘Important Notices’ at page 498.
Strategic report Sustainability
Non-financial information statement
This table sets out where shareholders and stakeholders can find information about key non-financial matters in this report, in
compliance with the non-financial reporting requirements contained in sections 414CA and 414CB of the Companies Act 2006.
Further disclosures are available on sc.com and in our 2022 ESG Reporting Index, published at sc.com/esg-reporting-index
in Q1 2023.
Where to read more in this report about our policies and impact
Reporting requirement (including risks, policy embedding, due diligence and outcomes) Page
Environmental matters Risk overview
• Risk overview 42
Stakeholders and Sustainability
• Our approach to climate change 66
• Our net zero plan 67
• TCFD summary and alignment index 68
• Reducing our environmental footprint in our operations and supply chain 74
• Reducing our financed emissions 76
• Catalysing finance and partnerships for transition 84
• Mitigating environmental and social risk 88
• Assessing the resilience of our strategy using scenario analysis 90
• Mitigating the financial and non-financial risks from climate change 96
• Governance of our sustainability agenda 113
Directors' report
• Environmental impact of our operations 227
Employees Engaging stakeholders
• Employees 60
Stakeholders and Sustainability
• Conduct and ethics 120
Directors' report
• Employee policies and engagement 223
• Health and safety 224
Human rights Engaging stakeholders
• Suppliers 58
Stakeholders and Sustainability
• Respecting human rights 122
Social matters Engaging stakeholders
• Society 59
Stakeholders and Sustainability
• Impact in our communities 122
Anti-corruption and bribery Risk overview 42
Stakeholders and Sustainability
• Conduct and ethics 120
• Fighting financial crime 121
Directors' report
• Political donations 219
Description of business model Business model 18
Non-financial KPIs Employees
• Employee engagement (eNPS) 60
• Gender and ethnicity pay disclosure 63
• Gender diversity in senior roles 63
• Training on financial crime (including ABC, AML, sanctions and fraud) 121
• Recommitment to the Code of Conduct 120
• Supplementary people information 484
Environment and Society
• Sustainability Aspirations achieved or on track 23
• Supplementary information: Environmental and social risk management 488
• Supplementary information: Environment 489
• Supplementary information: Charitable giving 492
Principal risks and uncertainties Risk review and Capital review 234
* Visit sc.com/environmentcriteria for our carbon emissions criteria and sc.com/environmentalassurance for Global Documentation’s Assurance Statement of our
Scope 1 and 2 emissions, and waste and water data
124 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
O[[ ur Sustainable
Accounts go global]]
In 2022, we launched our innovative Sustainable Account for
corporate clients in Mainland China, Singapore, Dubai, Hong
Kong, Taiwan, Malaysia and the US, after pilot launches in the
UK and UAE in 2021. Our Sustainable Account offers clients
the flexibility of retaining access to their cash while supporting
activities aligned with the United Nations Sustainable
Development Goals. Cash placed into the Sustainable
Account is referenced against projects aligned with the Bank’s
Green and Sustainable Product Framework, developed with
the support of Sustainalytics, an independent provider of
environmental, social and governance research and ratings.
Read more online at www.sc.com/sustainableaccounts
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 125
Strategic
report
Strategic report Viability statement
Viability statement
The directors are required to issue a viability statement regarding This year, the primary focus has been on the effects of rising
the Group, explaining their assessment of the prospects of the interest rates and inflation, combined with severe market volatility
Group over an appropriate period of time and state whether and a global economic downturn. The Group has explored the
they have reasonable expectation that the Group will be able impact of rising rates and inflation on customers’ ability to service
to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due. debt and considered how net interest income sensitivity evolves
under various scenarios.
The directors are to also disclose the period of time for which they
have made the assessment and the reason they consider that For the 2022 ICAAP submission for climate risk, the Group moved
period to be appropriate. towards a more quantitative approach comparing the worst
(annualised) five-year loss period from all three NGFS scenarios to
In considering the viability of the Group, the directors have
the projected peak losses from the 2022 Group ICAAP. The Late
assessed the key factors including, but not limited to; inflationary
Action scenario was identified to drive the maximum difference
pressures, sovereign downgrades and recession, the war in
in losses in a five year period; however, this was lower than losses
Ukraine and other geopolitical events likely to affect the
experienced under the ICAAP macroeconomic stress scenario,
Group’s business model and strategic plan, future performance,
concluding that an additional capital add-on was not required
capital adequacy, solvency and liquidity taking into account the
for climate risk.
emerging risks as well as the principal risks.
In 2022, the Group further assessed the impact from Climate
The viability assessment has been made over a period of three
risk on our CCIB corporate client portfolio based on three
years, which the directors consider appropriate as it is within
International Energy Agency (IEA) scenarios and three Phase 2
both the Group’s strategic planning horizon and, the basis upon
NGFS scenarios and participated in the Monetary Authority of
which its regulatory capital stress tests are undertaken and is
Singapore Industry-Wide Stress Test. The impact of sea level rises
representative of the continuous level of regulatory change
under various Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC)
affecting the financial services industry. The directors will continue
Representative Concentration Pathways (RCP) scenarios was
to monitor and consider the appropriateness of this period.
used to explore the Physical Risk impact on the Consumer, Private
The directors have reviewed the corporate plan, the output of the and Business Banking (CPBB) residential mortgage portfolio.
Group’s formalised process of budgeting and strategic planning.
Under this range of scenarios, the results of these stress tests
For the 2023 Corporate Plan, the forward-looking cash flows and
demonstrate that the Group has sufficient capital and liquidity
balances includes the anticipated impact of global interest rates
to continue as a going concern and meet regulatory minimum
on revenues and inflationary pressure on costs . The corporate
capital and liquidity requirements.
plan is evaluated and approved each year by the Board with
confirmation from the Group Chief Risk Officer that the Plan is To assess the Group’s business model vulnerabilities, extreme
aligned with the Enterprise Risk Management Framework and and unlikely scenarios are explored that, by design, result in the
Group Risk Appetite Statement and considers the Group’s future Group’s business model no longer being viable these scenarios
projections of profitability, cash flows, capital requirements and have included for the Group extreme geopolitical tensions
resources, liquidity ratios and other key financial and regulatory disrupting capital flows within the Group’s footprint and cyber
ratios over the period. The corporate plan details the Group’s key security attacks. Insights from these reverse stress tests can inform
performance measures, of forecast profit, CET 1 capital ratio strategy, risk management and capital and liquidity planning.
forecast, return on tangible equity forecasts, cost to income
Further information on stress testing is provided in the
ratio forecasts and cash investment projections. The Board has Risk management approach section (page 295).
reviewed the ongoing performance management process of the
Group by comparing the statutory results to the budgets and The directors further considered the Group’s Internal Liquidity
corporate plan. Adequacy Assessment Process (ILAAP), which considers the
Group’s liquidity position, its framework and whether sufficient
The Group performs enterprise-wide stress tests using a range of
liquidity resources are being maintained to meet liabilities as they
bespoke hypothetical scenarios that explore the resilience of the
fall due. Funding and liquidity was considered in the context of
Group to shocks to its balance sheet and business model.
the risk appetite metrics, including the ADR and LCR ratios.
To assess the Group’s balance sheet vulnerabilities and capital
Further information on stress testing is provided in the Risk
and liquidity adequacy, severe but plausible macro-financial
management approach section (page 297).
scenarios explore shocks that trigger one or more of:
The Board Risk Committee (“BRC”) exercises oversight on
• Global slowdowns including recessions in China, Asian and behalf of the Board of the key risks of the Group and makes
Western economies that can be acute or more protracted, recommendations to the Board on the Group’s Risk Appetite
resulting in severe declines in propertyprices Statement. These risks include, amongst others; credit, traded,
• Sharp falls in world trade volumes and disruption to global treasury, operational and technology, reputational and
supply chains, including the severe worsening of trade tensions sustainability, compliance, information and cyber security
and rise of protectionism. financial crime and model risks. The BRC further exercises
oversight over the integrated risks of climate, digital asset
• Inflationary pressures in the global economy including volatility and third party which cut across all principal risks.
in commodity prices
• Significant rises in interest rates and depreciation in emerging
market currencies, resulting in heightened sovereign risk
• Financial market volatility, including significant moves in
asset prices driven by a combination of macroeconomic
and geopolitical events
132 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 133
Strategic
report
The BRC receives regular reports that inform it of the Group’s key
risks, as well as updates on the macroeconomic environment,
geo-political outlook, market developments, and regulatory
updates on relevant matters. In 2022, the BRC had deeper
discussion on: Blue Sky Thinking/ Horizon Scanning, CCIB Risk
deep dives, specifically the risk to the Group’s assets, operations
and individuals due to the potential for unauthorised access, use,
disclosure, disruption, modification or destruction of information.
GSAM second line to first line transition, Commodity Traders
Framework, Credit Portfolio Management annual review, cloud
governance and material cloud deployments, Reputational and
Sustainability risk including the Groups approach to identification
and management thereof. CPBB Risk Review, Safety and Security
risk, Credit Risk review including how COVID-19 related restrictions
are lifting in many of the groups markets. Chief Risk officer report
around balance sheet capital and liquidity management.
SC Ventures risk and governance, Taiwan tensions and actions
proposed by management, emerging financial crime threats
and the appointment of the new GCRO.
Based on the information received, the directors’ considered
the principal uncertainties as well as the principal risks in their
assessment of the Group’ viability, how these impact the risk
profile, performance and viability of the Group and any specific
mitigating or remedial actions necessary.
For further details of information relevant to the directors,
assessment can be found in the following sections of the annual
report and accounts:
• The Group’s Business model (pages 18 to 20) and Strategy
(pages 22 to 23)
• The Group’s current position and prospects including factors
likely to affect future results and development, together with
a description of financial and funding positions are described
in the client segment reviews and regional reviews (pages 26
to 31)
• An update on the key risk themes of the Group is discussed in
the Risk overview, fo und in the Strategic Report (pages 42 to 51)
• The BRC section of the Director’s report (pages 170 to 175)
• The Group’s Topical and Emerging Risks, sets out the key
external factors that could impact the Group in the coming
year (pages 48 to 51).
• The Group’s Enterprise Risk Management Framework details
how the Group identifies, manages and governs risk (pages 295
to 300)
• The Group’s Risk profile provides an analysis of our risk
exposures across all major risk types (page 301 to 319)
• The capital position of the Group, regulatory development and
the approach to management and allocation of capital are set
out in the Capital review (pages 320 to 325)
Having considered all the factors outlined above, the directors
confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the
Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its
liabilities as they fall due over the period of the assessment
up to 31 December 2025.
Our Strategic report from pages 01 to 133 has been
reviewed and approved by the Board.
Bill Winters
Group Chief Executive
16 February 2023
Directors’ report Group Chairman’s governance overview
Group Chairman’s the strengthening of our risk oversight through the reallocation
of the work of the Board Financial Crime Risk Committee to a
combination of the Board, Board Risk Committee and Audit
governance overview Committee. The reallocation enables a more integrated review of
risks that are closely associated, such as fraud, information and
cyber security and financial crime. Financial and non-financial risks
continue to receive substantial attention and focus at the Board
Risk Committee and Board. In addition, the Audit Committee
carefully scrutinised financial reporting matters and internal
controls, cognisant of the challenging external environment.
The Corporate Plan is an important part of the Board’s agenda each
year and never more than this year, with so many economic and
political headwinds. The Board considered a number of strategic
opportunities for growth in the context of our risk appetite, receiving
presentations from our front-line businesses and risk teams before
approving the plan.
The easing of travel restrictions has meant that I have been able
to visit a number of markets and we have additionally held Board
meetings in Singapore and Dubai, where we hosted a subsidiary
governance conference attended by the chairs of many of our
banking subsidiaries. It was a great event and I welcomed the
opportunity to engage with so many of my colleagues, both old
and new. The Board is planning to visit several countries across
Dr José Viñals our footprint this year as we continue to strengthen the linkages
Group Chairman between the main and subsidiary boards. We also were pleased that
shareholders could attend our 2022 Annual General Meeting (AGM)
in person for the first time since 2019 given the easing of restrictions
on public gatherings.
“ Good governance requires an
Recognising the impact on society and other stakeholders, the Board
awareness of the landscape, sought, and received, shareholder endorsement of our net zero
pathway at the 2022 AGM. Market Forces and Friends Provident
appropriate oversight, and
Foundation filed a resolution outlining a different approach, which
did not pass. We appreciate the involvement of both organisations
a strong tone from the top,
and share their commitment to the transition to net zero, but the
Board preferred the Group’s strategic approach to achieve this and
driven by an effective Board.”
recommended that shareholders support our advisory resolution
and oppose the requisitioned resolution. The Board, whether directly
or through our Culture and Sustainability Committee, is regularly
apprised of the progress we are making against the commitments
in the net zero pathway and continues to be actively involved, and
I am pleased that we are meeting the milestones set out in our plan.
In my opening letter, I referred to the uncertain backdrop to 2022,
Further information on this can be found on pages 64 to 124.
caused by ongoing economic, political and social dislocation, the
continuing impact of COVID-19 and geopolitical tensions in many I was disappointed with the levels of support for our directors’
parts of the World. Despite the uncertainty, we have made strong remuneration policy and directors’ remuneration report at last year’s
progress across our portfolio. This progress is supported by the AGM, which was the subject of much Board and Remuneration
resilience of the business, which is in turn underpinned by our Committee discussion. I am grateful to Christine for leading the
governance. engagement with many of our shareholders to better understand
their views. This resulted in the updates announced in September
Good governance requires an awareness of the landscape,
which are detailed, along with the extensive engagement undertaken
appropriate oversight, and a strong tone from the top, driven
by the Committee, in the Directors’ Remuneration Report starting on
by an effective Board. A key focus of the Board this year was
page 184.
managing its own succession, with the loss of a number of very
experienced non-executives and the appointment of some The Board was heartened by the results of the externally facilitated
excellent replacements, as I mentioned in my statement on effectiveness review of the Board and its committees. It assessed the
pages 7 and 8. I am very conscious that with the retirements Board’s progress since the last external review in 2019 and concluded
of Naguib Kheraj, Byron Grote, Christine Hodgson and Jasmine that the Board continues to operate effectively while also identifying
Whitbread, we lose a wealth of experience and knowledge of the some areas for improvement. More detail on process, outcomes and
Group. Accordingly, we have accelerated the inductions of our new actions can be found on page 156.
non-executives who have spent a lot of time with the outgoing
Finally, the Board remains confident for the Group’s future and is
non-executives. I was also pleased to welcome Adrian de Souza as
committed to our strategy, our purpose, and is laser focused on
Group Company Secretary in May 2022, who takes over from Scott
developing sustained and sustainable returns within our risk appetite.
Corrigan’s interim tenure and I would like to take the opportunity
to thank Scott for his wise counsel. Further detail regarding the
changes made to our Board appears in the Governance and
Nomination Committee report starting on page 179.
Another key area of focus was geopolitical risk. The Board received
presentations from economists, strategists and geopolitical
commentators over a number of Board sessions and dinners.
We considered carefully the impact on our business of China-US
tensions and the Russia-Ukraine war, as well as those presented Dr José Viñals
by Climate Risks. The conclusions of these sessions helped us Group Chairman
challenge and shape our Corporate Plan. In April, we continued
136 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Directors’ report Board of Directors
Board of Directors Committee key Committee Chair shown in green
A Audit Committee
Ri Board Risk Committee
S Culture and Sustainability Committee
N Governance and Nomination Committee
R Remuneration Committee
Dr José Viñals (68) Experience José has substantial experience José has held many other board and advisory
Group Chairman in the international regulatory arena and positions, including chair of Spain’s Deposit
has exceptional understanding of the Guarantee Fund, chair of the International
Appointed October 2016 and Group
economic, financial and political dynamics Relations Committee at the European
Chairman in December 2016. José was
of our markets and of global trade. He has Central Bank, member of the Economic
appointed to the Court of Standard
a broad network of decision-makers in the and Financial Committee of the European
Chartered Bank in April 2019.
jurisdictions in our footprint. Union, and chair of the Working Group
on Institutional Investors at the Bank for
Career Until 2016, José was the Financial
International Settlements.
Counsellor and the Director of the Monetary
and Capital Markets Department at the External appointments José is Co-Chair
International Monetary Fund (IMF) and was of the United Nations’ Alliance of Global
responsible for the oversight and direction Investors for Sustainable Development
of the IMF’s monetary and financial sector (GISD). He is a board member of the Institute
work. He was the IMF’s chief spokesman on of International Finance (IIF), a member of
financial matters, including global financial the board of directors of the Bretton Woods
stability. During his tenure, José was a Committee, member of the Advisory Council
member of the Plenary and Steering of CityUK, member of the World Economic
Committee of the Financial Stability Forum’s Community of Chairpersons and
Board, playing a key role in the reform of board member of the Social Progress
international financial regulation. Prior to the Initiative. He is a past President of the
IMF, José began his career as an economist International Monetary Conference.
and as a member of the faculty at Stanford Committees N
University, before going to the Central Bank
of Spain, where he was the Deputy Governor.
Bill Winters (61) Experience Bill is a career banker with review of the bank’s liquidity operations.
Group Chief Executive significant frontline global banking In 2011, Bill founded Renshaw Bay, an
experience and a proven track record of alternative asset management firm, where
Appointed June 2015. Bill was also
leadership and financial success. He has he was chairman and CEO. He stepped down
appointed to the Court of Standard
extensive experience of working in emerging on appointment to the Standard Chartered
Chartered Bank in June 2015.
markets and a proven record in spotting and PLC Board. Bill was previously a non-executive
nurturing talent. director of Pension Insurance Corporation plc
and RIT Capital Partners plc. He received a
Career Bill began his career with JP Morgan,
CBE in 2013. Bill is a director of Standard
where he went on to become one of its top
Chartered Holdings Limited.
five most senior executives and later co-chief
executive officer at the investment bank External appointments Bill is an
from 2004 until he stepped down in 2009. independent non-executive director of
Bill was invited to be a committee member Novartis International AG. He is also an
of the Independent Commission on Banking Advisory Group Member of the Integrity
to recommend ways to improve competition Council for Voluntary Carbon Markets and
and financial stability in banking. a member of the Steering Committee of
Subsequently, he served as an adviser to the UK Voluntary Carbon Markets Forum.
the Parliamentary Commission on Banking Bill Winters leads the
Standards and was asked by the Court of the Management Team
Bank of England to complete an independent
138 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Directors’ report Board of Directors
Phil Rivett (67) Experience Phil has significant He became Leader of PwC’s Financial
Independent Non-Executive Director professional accountancy and audit Services Assurance practice in 2007 and
experience, specifically focused in the was appointed Chairman of its Global
Appointed May 2020. Phil was also
financial services sector. He has a strong Financial Services Group in 2011. Phil has
appointed to the Court of Standard
technical understanding and broad sat on a number of global financial services
Chartered Bank in May 2020.
financial and business experience. industry groups, producing guidelines
for best practice in governance, financial
Career Phil joined PricewaterhouseCoopers
reporting and risk management.
(PwC) as a graduate trainee accountant
in 1976, becoming a Partner in 1986. He External appointments Phil is an
spent more than 30 years as a Partner at independent non-executive director
PwC and was lead relationship Partner and Chair of the Audit Committee
for several large FTSE 100 companies, at Nationwide Building Society.
including a number of international banks
and financial services institutions. He also
Committees A Ri N
has substantial international experience,
having worked with banks across the
Middle East and Asia, in particular China.
Jasmine Whitbread (59) Experience Jasmine has significant business executive officer, a position she held until she
Independent Non-Executive Director leadership experience as well as first-hand stepped down in 2015. Jasmine stepped
experience of operating across our markets. down as a non-executive director from the
Appointed April 2015. Jasmine was
Board of BT Group plc in December 2019 and
appointed to the Court of Standard Career Jasmine began her career in
as chief executive of London First in March
Chartered Bank in April 2019. international marketing in the technology
2021, a business campaigning group with a
sector and joined Thomson Financial in
mission to make London the best city in the
1994, becoming managing director of
world to do business.
the Electronic Settlements Group. After
completing the Stanford Executive Program, External appointments Jasmine became
Jasmine set up one of Oxfam’s first regional Chair of Travis Perkins plc in March 2021
offices, managing nine country operations in and is a non-executive director of WPP plc
West Africa, later becoming international and Compagnie Financière Richemont SA.
director responsible for Oxfam’s programmes
worldwide. Jasmine joined Save the Children
Committees S N R
in 2005, where she was responsible for As announced in November 2022, Jasmine will step
revitalising one of the UK’s most established down from the Board at the 2023 Annual General
charities. In 2010, she was appointed as Meeting (AGM).
Save the Children’s first international chief
David Conner (74) Experience David has significant global and a strategy of growth and led the bank
Independent Non-Executive Director corporate, investment and retail banking through a period of significant turbulence.
experience, strong risk management David stepped down as chief executive
Appointed January 2016.
credentials and an in-depth knowledge officer in 2012 but remained as a non-
of Asian markets. executive director on the board of OCBC
Bank, before leaving the group in 2014.
Career David spent his career in the financial
He was previously a non-executive director
services industry, living and working across
of GasLog Ltd.
Asia for 37 years, for both Citibank and
OCBC Bank. He joined Citibank in 1976 as a External appointments David is Chair of the
management trainee and went on to hold a Barnard Cancer Institute and an emeritus
number of Asia-based senior management trustee of Washington University in St Louis.
roles, including chief executive officer of
Citibank India and managing director and
Committees A Ri R
marketing manager at Citibank Japan, David is also a member of the Combined
before leaving Citibank in 2002. David joined US Operations Risk Committee of Standard
OCBC Bank in Singapore as chief executive Chartered Bank.
officer and director in 2002. He implemented
Gay Huey Evans, CBE (68) Experience Gay has extensive banking Barclays Capital where she was vice chair
Independent Non-Executive Director and financial services experience with of investment banking and investment
significant commercial and UK regulatory management. She was previously a
Appointed April 2015. Gay was appointed
and governance experience. non-executive director at Aviva plc, the
to the Court of Standard Chartered Bank
London Stock Exchange Group plc and Itau
in April 2019. Career Gay spent over 30 years working
BBA International Plc. In 2016, she received
within the financial services industry, the
an OBE for services to financial services
international capital markets and with the
and diversity and a CBE for services to the
UK financial regulator. Gay spent seven years
economy and philanthropy in the Queen’s
with the Financial Services Authority from
Birthday Honours list 2021.
1998 to 2005, where she was director of
markets division, capital markets sector External appointments Gay is Chair of the
leader, with responsibility for establishing a London Metal Exchange, a non-executive
market-facing division for the supervision of director of ConocoPhillips and S&P Global,
market infrastructure, oversight of market and a non-executive member of the HM
conduct and developing markets policy. From Treasury board. Gay also sits on the panel
2005 to 2008, Gay held a number of roles at of senior advisers at Chatham House and
Citibank, including head of governance, Citi the board of the Benjamin Franklin House.
Alternative Investments, EMEA, before joining
Committees Ri
140 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Directors’ report Corporate governance
Corporate
governance
Key areas of Board discussion during 2022
Code compliance
This section offers an insight into key Board items and
activities covered during the year, as well as the structure The UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 (UK Code) and the Hong
of the Board, its committees, and its meetings. Kong Corporate Governance Code contained in Appendix 14 of the
Hong Kong Listing Rules (HK Code) are the standards against which
At the beginning of the year, and following approval of
we measured ourselves in 2022.
the Corporate Plan, the Board reviewed and updated its
The directors are pleased to confirm that Standard Chartered PLC
key priorities, as well as discussed potential Blue Sky topics,
(the Company) continued to comply with the provisions set out in
to help prepare its forward plan. This required careful
the UK Code and the HK Code for the year.
consideration and regular review throughout the year to
Throughout this corporate governance report we have provided an
ensure standing items, strategic objectives, governance
insight into how governance operates within the Group and how we
principles and risk and compliance requirements were
have applied the principles set out in the UK Code and HK Code.
appropriately addressed. Some of the areas detailed on
The Group confirms that it has adopted a code of conduct
the following pages formed part of the standing agenda
regarding directors’ securities transactions on terms no less exacting
for each meeting, while others were reviewed periodically
than required by Appendix 10 of the Hong Kong Listing Rules.
during 2022. Having made specific enquiry of all directors, the Group confirms
that all directors have complied with the required standards of the
Stakeholder consideration and engagement is central
adopted code of conduct.
to the Board’s priorities. We recognise the importance
References to examples of UK Code application in the
of promoting positive stakeholder relationships and the
Annual Report can be found on page 218
Board spends significant time interacting with them to
better understand their views, as well as the opportunities, Copies of the UK Code and the HK Code can be found at
challenges and the Group’s impact across our diverse frc.org.uk and hkex.com.hk respectively
markets. In addition, the Board regularly discusses the To the extent applicable, information required by
impact on stakeholders, their perspectives and their paragraphs 13(2) (c), (d), (f), (h) and (i) of Schedule 7 of
the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups
feedback, whether in Board and committee meetings, or as
(Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 is available in
part of other interactions across the Group. Some examples Other disclosures on pages 218 to 230
of this can be found in the section 172 of the Companies Act
2006 (s.172) disclosure on pages 54 to 124, within spotlight
items on the following pages and on pages 158 to 162.
Directors are alert to their statutory duties and obligations,
including those outlined under s.172, and this forms an
integral part of director induction and annual training.
The Board will continue to focus on considering
stakeholders as part of the Board’s decision-making.
Our stakeholders, their interests: driving commerce and prosperity through our unique diversity
The Board spends significant time considering, and engaging with, its key stakeholders to better understand their
views and perspectives. A summary of stakeholder interests can be found in the Strategic report across the pages
identified below.
Clients Regulators and Investors Suppliers Society Employees
governments
Read more Read more Read more Read more Read more Read more
on page 56 on page 57 on page 58 on page 59 on page 59 on page 60
146 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 147
Directors’
report
Key areas of Board discussion during 2022 continued
Strategy
Spotlight
• Reviewed and approved the 2023-2027 Corporate Plan
Liverpool Football Club
as a basis for preparation of the 2023 budget, receiving
confirmation from the Group Chief Risk Officer that the plan
is aligned to the Enterprise Risk Management Framework sponsorship renewal
and the Group Risk Appetite Statement
• Discussed progress made against the Group’s strategic
priorities and critical enablers The Group announced a four-year extension to their
• Reviewed and scrutinised the strategic and operational main sponsor agreement with Liverpool Football Club
performance of the business across client segments, product (LFC) and LFC Women in July 2022. The Board discussed
groups and regions, which included details of their priorities, and reviewed the proposed plans to renew the long-
progress, opportunities and response to current events. standing relationship and fully supported continuing the
This included deep dives into the following areas: partnership through to the end of the 2026/27 season,
including increased investment in LFC Women. LFC is a
– Financial Markets
globally renowned football club, with many followers
– Private Banking across our markets in Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
– Africa and Middle East The Board recognised this as a unique and valuable
opportunity to help deliver our narrative and Stands.
• Received and discussed regular corporate development
Continuing to invest in brand and business marketing
updates
where appropriate is an important part of the Group’s
• Reviewed and approved changes to focus the Group’s Corporate Plan.
presence in the Africa and Middle East region. Further
information on this can be found on page 57
• Discussed and reviewed the Group’s sustainability strategy
• Discussed and reviewed the Group’s Transformation,
Stakeholders
Technology & Operations strategy
• Received an update on the Group’s investment in its associate
Clients Suppliers
China Bohai Bank
• Approved the corporate restructuring of the Ventures Investors Society
business segment
• Approved the Liverpool Football Club sponsorship renewal
Risk management
Spotlight
• Discussed and reviewed progress against the Group’s
Resolvability
Transformation and Remediation Portfolio and Information
and Cyber Security Risk (ICS) profile
• Received and discussed briefings from management on ICS
Resolvability was a fundamental part of the Board’s
matters regularly throughout the year, including contributions
agenda for the year. They reviewed, challenged and
from the independent adviser to the Board on cyber security
approved enhancements to the updated Group’s
and cyber threat management
Resolvability Assessment Report provided to the Bank
• Discussed and endorsed the Group’s ICS strategy
of England in February 2022 and approved the Group’s
• Reviewed and discussed risk reports from the Group Chief Resolvability disclosure published in June 2022. In July
Risk Officer 2022, the Board attended a teach-in session of the Master
• Approved Sadia Ricke’s appointment as Group Chief Risk Resolution Playbook. It also participated in a Resolution
Officer, subject to regulatory approval simulation exercise with senior leaders and experts in
• Discussed, reviewed and/or approved various activities December 2022 to role play a hypothetical scenario that
relating to Resolvability could arise if Standard Chartered were to enter resolution.
• Engaged with the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) on
Further information can be found on page 173
the findings of their 2022 Periodic Summary Meeting Letter
• Assessed progress in continuing to strengthen the Group’s
risk culture
• Approved the risk appetite validation of the 2023 Corporate
Plan, which included a consideration of principal risks,
including Climate Risk
• Approved the renewal of the Group’s insurance policies for Stakeholders
2022/2023
• Approved material changes to the Enterprise Risk Clients Suppliers
Management Framework
• Undertook Blue Sky thinking/horizon scanning discussions, Regulators and Society
which considered the potential risks and opportunities that governments
the Group might be or could become exposed to
Investors Employees
Directors’ report Corporate governance
Key areas of Board discussion during 2022 continued
Financials and performance
Spotlight
• Monitored the Group’s financial performance
Dividend payments
• Approved the 2021 full year and 2022 half year results
• Monitored and assessed the strength of the Group’s
and share buy-backs
capital and liquidity positions
• Considered the Group’s approach to capital management
and returns The Board approved two dividend payments in 2022, as
• Approved a 2021 final dividend and 2022 interim dividend well as two ordinary share buy-back programmes. As part
• Approved two share buy-back programmes of its decision-making process, the Board took account
of the importance of approving distributions and other
• Received half yearly updates on, and discussed, the
Group’s major investment programmes in 2022 capital management activities within an appropriately
prudent framework. The Board sought assurance from
• Received half yearly updates on, and discussed, investor
management that the proposed plans would not impact
relations matters
the Group’s ability to provide sufficient support to the
• Approved the Group’s 2021 Country-by-Country
Group’s key clients and other stakeholders.
Reporting disclosures
Stakeholders
Clients Regulators and Investors
governments
People, culture and values
Spotlight
• Approved the Group’s 2021 Modern Slavery Statement
Culture
• Discussed progress made against the Group’s people
strategy and culture aspirations
• Discussed aspects of the Group’s global employee The Board considered the Group’s culture aspirations,
engagement survey, My Voice recognising that good progress had been made in
• Received updates on the progression and evolution of a number of areas, including employee experience,
the Management Team’s and senior management’s psychological safety and leadership. They discussed
succession plans following a number of recent with management the ambitions for the future, taking
appointments into account feedback from across the Group. The
• Discussed the Group’s diversity and inclusion initiatives aspiration is to encourage greater innovation that is
• Approved updates to the Board Diversity Policy aligned to our strategy, enable the simplification of
decision-making and drive client centricity through
• Approved changes to the Group’s operational
resilience strategy a culture of high performance and execution.
• Reviewed an annual report update on the operation and Stakeholders
effectiveness of the Group’s Speaking Up programme
Clients Employees Society
External environment
Spotlight
• Received updates on the macroeconomic headwinds
Global market trends
and tailwinds in the global economy, including an
assessment of the impact on the key drivers of the
Group’s financial performance
The Board invited a number of internal experts and guest
• Received internal and external briefings and input across
speakers to attend Board dinners providing important
a range of subjects, including:
and specialist insight and context to the Board discussion,
– global market trends
on a variety of matters. A number covered global market
– the global macro impact of the Russia-Ukraine war trends, set against the backdrop of demographic,
– geopolitical developments between the US and China economic and technological developments.
– societal and business implications of global Stakeholders
demographic trends
– strategic insights into global markets, geopolitics Clients Suppliers
and policy
– regulatory developments and updates Regulators and Society
governments
Investors Employees
148 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 149
Directors’
report
Key areas of Board discussion during 2022 continued
Governance
Spotlight
• Noted and/or approved changes to the membership of
Board Financial
the Board’s committees and chairs of the Remuneration
Committee and Board Risk Committee
• Approved the appointment of the new Senior Crime Risk Committee
Independent Director
• Received reports at each scheduled meeting from the Board
committee chairs on key areas of focus for the committees Given the progress made by the Board Financial
and quarterly updates from Standard Chartered Bank (Hong Crime Risk Committee (BFCRC) in respect to financial
Kong) Limited and its Audit and Board Risk committees crime risk management, the 2020 Board effectiveness
• Undertook training on director duties and the governance review highlighted the potential for the work of the
landscape BFCRC to be reallocated to a combination of the
• Approved the reallocation of the work of the Board Financial Board Risk Committee, the Audit Committee and the
Crime Risk Committee Board. Feedback from the 2021 Board effectiveness
• Discussed and reviewed the independence, performance and review indicated broad support for this approach.
annual re-election of the non-executive directors In light of this, the Board agreed to reallocate the
• Approved the continued independence of Christine Hodgson, work with effect from 1 April 2022. The reallocation of
an independent non-executive director (INED), up until she BFCRC oversight enables a more holistic and efficient
stepped down from the Board on 31 January 2023 examination and discussion of risks that are closely
• Approved the re-appointment of the independent advisers linked, such as fraud, information and cyber security
to the Board, on cyber security and cyber threats, and and financial crime. The BFCRC held one meeting in
financial crime 2022 where it reviewed the agenda and confirmed
• Authorised potential conflicts of interest relating to directors’ the reallocation of each item into the new structure.
external appointments
• Discussed the observations and themes arising from the 2022
external Board and committees’ effectiveness review ahead Stakeholders
of approving the 2023 Action Plan in early 2023
• Reviewed, and approved updates where appropriate, to the
Regulators and Investors
Terms of Reference for each Board committee
governments
• Further developed meaningful linkages between the Board
and its subsidiaries at chair, board and committee level
• Approved changes to the Group Sources of Authority Society Employees
Framework to support the reorganisation of certain
client segments
Shareholder and
Spotlight
stakeholder engagement
Investor sentiment
• Engaged with investors, held meetings with brokers, discussed
the views of institutional shareholders
survey
• Discussed and reviewed the approach to engaging
investors and other relevant stakeholders ahead of the
2022 Annual General Meeting (AGM) in relation to the An external investor sentiment survey, on an
Group’s net zero pathway
anonymous basis, was conducted during the year with
• Held the 2022 AGM
the intention of seeking insight into how the Group was
• Held a hybrid stewardship event attended by investors
perceived, to identify areas of focus for investors and
representing a sizeable proportion of our equity as well as
understand how the Group could improve its investor
several shareholder representative bodies
communications. This was particularly important
• Engaged with employees, clients, shareholders and regulators
given the changes in the external environment and the
• As part of the Group’s asset reunification programme,
evolution of the Group’s strategy. The Board discussed
approved the donation of reclaimed assets to Futuremakers
key areas to focus on to address concerns investors had
by Standard Chartered, a global initiative to tackle inequality
highlighted and which had emerged from the report.
and promote greater economic inclusion
• Met with shareholders to discuss remuneration proposals
and outcomes, also following response to our directors’
remuneration policy and directors’ remuneration report at the
2022 AGM, to better understand their views
• Discussed support provided to clients, colleagues and
communities during continued impact of COVID-19 in Stakeholders
some markets
• Reviewed and discussed an investor sentiment survey Investors
• Received bi-annual updates from Investor Relations, including
share price and valuation analysis, market engagement and
ownership analysis and sell-side sentiment
For a detailed overview of our Examples of how the Board considered stakeholder perspectives in some
strategy see pages 22 and 23 principal decisions during the year are provided on pages 57 and 66
Directors’ report Corporate governance
Board and committee structure: decisions, responsibilities and delegation of authority
Standard Chartered PLC The Board must act with integrity and is shareholders, regulators and governments,
collectively responsible for establishing the clients, suppliers, the environment and the
Company’s purpose, values and strategy. It communities in which we operate.
is also responsible for promoting its culture
The Board discharges its responsibilities
and overseeing its conduct and affairs for
directly or, in order to assist it in carrying
promoting the long-term success of the
out its function of ensuring effective
Group, as well as ensuring leadership within
independent oversight and stewardship,
a framework of effective controls.
delegates specified responsibilities to
The Board sets the strategic direction of its committees. Detail of how the Board
the Group, approves the strategy and takes fulfilled its responsibilities in 2022, as well
the appropriate action to ensure that the as key topics discussed and considered by
Group is suitably resourced to achieve its the Board committees, can be found in this
strategic aspirations. Directors’ report.
The Board considers the impact of its Biographies for Board members are set out
decisions and its responsibilities to all of the on pages 138 to 142.
Group’s stakeholders, including employees,
Audit Committee Oversight and review of matters relating to financial reporting, Read more
the Group’s internal controls, including internal financial controls, on page 163
and the work undertaken by Conduct, Financial Crime &
Compliance, Group Internal Audit and the Group’s Statutory
Auditor, Ernst & Young LLP (EY).
Board Risk Committee Oversight and review of the Group’s Risk Appetite Statement, Read more
the appropriateness and effectiveness of the Group’s risk on page 170
management systems and the principal risks, including Climate
Risk, to the Group’s business. Furthermore, consideration of the
implications of material regulatory change proposals and due
diligence on material acquisitions and disposals.
Culture and Sustainability Oversight and review of the Group’s culture and Read more
Committee sustainability priorities. on page 176
Governance and Oversight and review of Board and executive succession, Read more
Nomination Committee overall Board effectiveness and corporate governance issues. on page 179
Remuneration Committee Oversight and review of remuneration, share plans and Read more
other incentives. on page 184
GGrroouupp CChhiieeff Executive The Group Chief Executive is responsible further delegation by him in respect of
Executive for the management of all aspects of the matters that are necessary for the effective
Group’s businesses, developing the strategy day-to-day running and management of
in conjunction with the Group Chairman and the business. The Board holds the Group
the Board, and leading its implementation. Chief Executive accountable in discharging
his delegated responsibilities.
The Board delegates authority for the
operational management of the Group’s
business to the Group Chief Executive for
MMaannaaggeemmeenntt TTeeaamm The Management Team comprises the heads. It has responsibility for executing
Group Chief Executive and the Group Chief the strategy. Details of the Group’s
Financial Officer, regional CEOs, client Management Team can be found on
segment CEOs, and our global function pages 143 to 145.
Terms of Reference for the Board and each committee are in place to provide clarity over where responsibility for decision-
making lies. These are reviewed annually against industry best practice and corporate governance provisions and guidance,
including the PRA Supervisory Statement on Board Responsibilities (as amended).
With the exception of the Governance and Nomination Committee (where the Group Chairman is its Chair) all of the Board
committees are composed of INEDs who bring a diversity of skills, experience and knowledge to the discussion, and play an
important role in supporting the Board.
Written Terms of Reference for the Board and its committees can be viewed at sc.com/termsofreference
150 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Directors’ report Corporate governance
Board composition, roles and attendance in 2022
The Group Chairman is committed to ensuring optimal Board effectiveness. A key mechanism to
drive this is the appropriate composition and balance of individuals.
The Board is composed of a majority of independent non-executive directors who provide an independent perspective,
constructive challenge, and monitor the performance and delivery of the strategy within the Risk Appetite and controls set
by the Board.
Detail regarding Board diversity can be found within the Governance and Nomination Committee report on pages 179 to 183
Group Chairman Executive directors
Group Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Chief Financial Officer
José Viñals Bill Winters Andy Halford
Responsibilities Responsibilities Responsibilities
Responsible for leading the Board, ensuring Responsible for the management of Responsible for Finance, Corporate Treasury,
its effectiveness in all aspects of its role all aspects of the Group’s businesses, Strategy, Group Corporate Development,
and developing the Group’s culture with developing the strategy in conjunction Group Investor Relations, Property and
the Group Chief Executive. Promotes high with the Group Chairman and the Board Supply Chain Management functions.
standards of integrity and governance and leading its implementation.
across the Group and ensures effective
communication and understanding
between the Board, management,
shareholders and wider stakeholders.
Attendance Attendance Attendance
AGM Y AGM Y AGM Y
Scheduled 8/8 Scheduled 8/8 Scheduled 8/8
Ad hoc 2/2 Ad hoc 2/2 Ad hoc 2/2
Independent non‑executive directors Attendance
AGM1 Scheduled Ad hoc
Senior Independent Director
David Conner Y 8/8 2/2
Maria Ramos
Responsibilities
Christine Hodgson, CBE1 Y 8/8 2/2
Provides a sounding board for the Group
Chairman and discusses concerns that are
unable to be resolved through the normal
Gay Huey Evans, CBE Y 8/8 2/2
channels or where such contact would be
inappropriate with shareholders and other
stakeholders. Chairs the Governance and Phil Rivett Y 8/8 2/2
Nomination Committee when considering
succession of the Group Chairman. Is
available to shareholders if they have David Tang Y 8/8 2/2
concerns that cannot be resolved or for
which the normal channels would be INEDs that
inappropriate. Can be contacted via the Carlson Tong Y 8/8 2/2 have stepped
Group Company Secretary at 1 Basinghall down in 2022
Avenue, London EC2V 5DD. Maria Ramos
took over from Christine Hodgson as Senior Jasmine Whitbread Y 8/8 2/2 Naguib Kheraj and
Independent Director on 1 September 2022. Byron Grote stepped
down from the
Attendance Naguib Kheraj N/A 2/2 1/1 Board on 30 April
AGM Y and 30 November
Scheduled 8/8 2022 respectively.
Byron Grote Y 7/7 2/2
Ad hoc 2/2
INEDs that
Shirish Apte Y 6/6 1/1
joined in 2022
Board committee roles and attendance can Robin Lawther, CBE N/A 4/4 N/A Shirish Apte, Robin
be found in the committee sections starting Lawther and Jackie
from page 163. Prior to the retirement of the Hunt joined the
B 1 A oa p r r d il 2 F 0 in 2 a 2 n , i c t i a h l e C ld r i o m n e e R m is e k e C t o in m g m du it r t i e n e g o 2 n 0 22 Jackie Hunt N/A 2/2 N/A Board on 4 May,
1 July and 1 October
with all members in attendance
2022 respectively.
The biographies of each director are set out
1 Christine Hodgson stepped down from the Board on 31 January 2023.
on pages 138 to 142
The roles of the Group Chairman and Linda Yueh joined the Board on 1 January 2023.
Group Chief Executive are distinct from one Further information can be found on page 142
another and are clearly defined in detailed
role descriptions which can be viewed at
sc.com/roledescriptions
152 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 153
Directors’
report
Director induction The Group Corporate Secretariat function supports the
INEDs as they undertake their induction programmes,
Three new directors were appointed to the Board during the
which are typically completed within the first six to nine
year. Shirish Apte, Robin Lawther and Jackie Hunt possess a
months of an INED appointment and progress is reviewed
range of skills and a breadth of knowledge relevant to the
by the Governance and Nomination Committee after six
Board debate. Details regarding their experience can be
months. The programmes are regularly reviewed and take
found in their biographies on pages 139 to 141.
into account directors’ feedback to ensure continuous
All new Board members are given a comprehensive, development and improvement.
formalised induction programme. Prior to taking up their
respective Board and committee positions, the three new Ongoing development plans
directors were provided with a number of induction sessions
Continuous training and development beyond a director’s
to ensure a smooth transition into their roles and positive
induction plan is essential to maintaining a highly engaged,
contributions from the outset. In addition, Shirish Apte and
effective and well-informed Board. Ongoing development
Maria Ramos received in-depth handovers from Christine
plans also help ensure directors lead with integrity and
Hodgson and Naguib Kheraj before succeeding them as Chair
promote the Group’s culture, purpose and values.
of the Remuneration Committee and Board Risk Committee
respectively. This included a period of shadowing Christine Mandatory learning and training are important elements
Hodgson and Naguib Kheraj through discussions and of directors’ fitness and propriety assessments as required
meetings in the lead-up to becoming committee chairs. under the Senior Managers Regime. During the year, all
Phil Rivett was appointed interim Board Risk Committee directors received a combination of mandatory learning
Chair following the retirement of Naguib Kheraj and pending and training, internal and external briefings, presentations
Maria Ramos’ appointment as Chair receiving regulatory from guest speakers, and papers on a wide range of
approval. He was actively involved in the handover process topics to ensure the directors are well informed and that
for Maria Ramos. the Board remains highly effective. The Board committee
members also received specific training relevant to the
While a proportion of the induction is relevant to all new
work of their respective committees. The format of ongoing
Board members, the content of the programme is tailored
training varied, including formal refresher sessions and
to meet each director’s individual level of experience and
informal meetings. The training covered a variety of topics
expertise. Shirish Apte, Robin Lawther and Jackie Hunt
throughout the year and were held either in person, virtually
participated or will participate in deep-dive sessions on
or a combination of the two. The table on the next page
a number of key topics. Examples include: the role and
gives further detail on who received these briefings.
responsibilities of a director; our strategic priorities; the critical
enablers and the Stands; the markets in which we operate; The Group Chairman reviews with each director their
client groups and product segments and principal risks. training and development needs both in real time and
In addition, learning and development sessions have taken as part of the annual performance cycle. Where it is
place or have been arranged to ensure they are well versed recognised that the Board or individual directors need
with the significant issues unique to each of their committee further training or development in key areas, additional
memberships. sessions are arranged with subject matter experts.
Each induction typically consists of a combination of All of the directors have access to the advice of the Group
meetings with existing Board members and senior staff. Company Secretary, who provides support to the Board
New Board members are also given the opportunity to attend and is responsible for advising the Board on governance
key management meetings and engage with stakeholders, matters. Directors also have access to independent,
including investors and clients. Visits to key markets across our professional advice at the Group’s expense where they judge
footprint were limited due to the variation of travel restrictions it necessary to discharge their responsibilities as directors.
but opened up as the year progressed. As such, there was a
combination of in person and virtual engagements.
Linda Yueh joined the Board on 1 January 2023; her experience
can be found in her biography on page 142. She has made
good progress in respect to her induction plan so far this year,
visiting two of our markets.
Spotlight Q. What are the key skills and experience
you bring to the Board?
Interview with
A. I’ve thoroughly enjoyed my executive and non-
executive roles over the years at organisations such
Robin Lawther
as JP Morgan, UK Government Investments, Nordea
Bank Abp, M&G plc, Ashurst LLP and Aon PLC. I’m truly
thankful for the opportunities and great experiences
An insight into one of our new INEDs
these roles have provided, which have helped deepen
my comprehensive knowledge across global markets
Robin Lawther, CBE and the financial, regulatory and governance landscape
Independent
more broadly. I enjoy acting as a sounding board and
Non-Executive Director
helping to problem-solve on many issues, as well as
having the chance to get to know the teams with whom
I have worked. I believe very strongly in being respectful
to everyone and embracing inclusivity. Whilst I seek to
improve diversity in all aspects, I have chosen to focus on
gender. This has been important to me throughout my
career, and I feel it’s crucial for women to empower and
support each other. In addition, I think that mentoring
and reverse mentoring are critical and I am happy to say
that I have just been assigned a colleague in Hong Kong
Q. What drew you to Standard Chartered
as my first reverse mentor and I am learning loads.
and how do your initial impressions align to
your expectations? Q. How important is a company’s culture to
A. As an entrepreneur at heart, I was delighted with the you and what are your views on the culture
opportunity to join a global bank that serves businesses at Standard Chartered?
that promote trade and innovation and puts clients at
A. This is incredibly important. In my experience
the heart of everything they do. Standard Chartered’s
a company that focuses on embedding the right
drive to be diverse and inclusive as well as giving back
behaviours, and taking actions to make this culture a
to communities in which they work was also a big
reality, will have a better chance at achieving success
draw, particularly as these are important concepts
in the long-term. I’m impressed by how many people at
I’ve championed throughout my career. Since joining
Standard Chartered are invested in delivering on the
Standard Chartered in July my initial impressions have
Group’s ambitions through collaboration and innovation,
been great. I’ve enjoyed getting to know my colleagues,
while continuing to strengthen an inclusive, high
as well as other stakeholders, and the Board’s visit to
performance, risk-aware culture.
Dubai in November is a good example of this. We were
hosted by an excellent team who ran a comprehensive
Q. How do you build connections with
agenda and were very welcoming.
key stakeholders?
Q. How effective have you found your A. I believe respect, empathy and a steely determination
induction programme in preparing you to do the right thing are key ingredients in building
as an INED and for the Standard Chartered connections and relationships. We have a wealth
of stakeholders to consider at Standard Chartered,
Board and committee discussions?
including clients, suppliers, colleagues, shareholders,
A. My induction programme has been very useful so regulators and the communities in which we operate.
far and has covered a broad range of different topics Listening and responding to their priorities and concerns
relevant to my role. I’ve also engaged with members of is so important and helps to deliver on our strategic
our leadership team across the Group who’ve provided priorities. As I mentioned before, diversity and inclusion
valuable insight into their roles, the business and the are important to me. Earlier in my career I set up an
functions. As part of the programme, I recently visited annual women’s networking event which has really
Malaysia and Singapore, along with two of my fellow grown over the years. I now host this more regularly
new directors. This was a fascinating experience where and I’m delighted by the high turnout and enthusiasm
I spoke to many different people from across the to support one another.
business, including our colleagues in the Global Business
Service centre, Malaysia as well as our partners in Q. What do you see as some of the key
Singapore who work on our digital banking solutions.
priorities for Standard Chartered over the
I was really encouraged to see how focused everyone
next 5 years?
is on driving the client experience and supporting
the younger demographic. I’m looking forward to the A. This is an important aspect of the Board’s agenda,
remainder of the induction process. and we discuss this with management in depth. I believe
continuing to put clients at the heart of all that we do
to be vital, as well as developing our talent and youth,
aiming to increase shareholder returns, giving back to
the communities and environments in which we operate,
maintaining a risk aware strategy, and leveraging off our
diverse and unique network.
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 155
Directors’
report
Directors’ report Corporate governance
Board effectiveness Progress against the 2022 Action Plan
The 2022 Action Plan set out a number of actions to be achieved
following the internal Board evaluation conducted in 2021.
The 2022 Action Plan was regularly reviewed during the
year and good progress had been made against actions as
evidenced by this year’s external Board effectiveness review.
This year, the Board Effectiveness Review comprised an
externally facilitated evaluation in accordance with the UK Key observations from the 2022 external
Corporate Governance Code. It was conducted by Ffion effectiveness review
Hague of Independent Board Evaluation (IBE). The Board’s
• The Board has shown considerable progress since
five committees were also observed as part of the review.
the last external evaluation and believes in continuous
Neither Ffion Hague nor IBE has any other connection with the
improvement.
Company or any individual directors. This was the third external
evaluation the Board has undertaken during José Viñals’ tenure • The Board is regarded as well constructed overall, with
as Group Chairman. plenty of listed experience and good diversity ratios,
although slightly larger than most market peers.
Board effectiveness review format
• The Board considered the importance of creating
A comprehensive brief was provided to the assessment team more space on the Board agendas and creating a
at IBE by the Group Chairman and the assessment team mechanism to take papers by exception.
observed the Board and its committees between July and
• That the standard tenure of INEDs needed further
October. The review took the form of detailed interviews with
consideration in order to smooth succession.
every board member, members from the Management Team
and other key non-board contributors, some 26 people in total.
2023 Action Plan
All participants were interviewed thoroughly in accordance
with a tailored agenda. The evaluation team also observed
• Review agendas of the Board and its committees to
Board and committee meetings, reviewed papers from these
reduce overlaps and create efficiencies.
meetings, as well as more static documentation provided.
• Revise key performance indicators and regular
A report was compiled by the evaluation team based on the reports to focus attention on outcomes rather than
information and views supplied by those interviewed and activity and completed steps.
observations from the Board and committee meetings. Draft
• Enhance peer benchmarking information and data.
conclusions were discussed with the Group Chairman and
subsequently the whole board in December 2022, with Ffion • Improve INED appointment process by increasing
Hague present. Following the Board discussion, IBE provided pace of recruitment and decision making.
feedback to each committee chair on the performance of
• Clarify the timetable and those responsible for
their committee and also discussed the report on the Group
Board appointments within that framework.
Chairman’s performance with the current and previous Senior
Independent Director. • Enhance new director induction packs to assist
them in understanding how strategy, risk appetite
In addition, the Group Chairman received a report with
and the organisation fit together.
feedback on individual directors which was used to support
the individual Fit and Proper and annual assessments • Rebalance the Board agendas to create more time
conducted with directors. Key observations were discussed by for linked strategic discussions.
the Governance and Nomination Committee ahead of the • Review the mechanism for Board workforce
Board and its committees finalising their 2023 action plans. engagement.
Key observations and action plans for the Board’s five
• Enhance the framework for ensuring reputational
committees can be found in the Board committee reports
risk is appropriately escalated to the Board and
starting on page 163.
its committees.
External evaluation process
Evaluation brief Board and committees One‑to‑one interviews Evaluation and report
provided to IBE observed conducted prepared
Observations discussed
with the Group Chairman,
Governance and Nomination
Committee, Board and Action plans for 2023 agreed
committee chairs with Board and committees
156 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Directors’ report Corporate governance
Stakeholder Ensuring authentic engagement
across our markets
engagement
Some of our markets continued to face COVID-19-related
restrictions during 2022, particularly in the early stages.
Certain visits were either limited or replaced with virtual
engagements. Dialogue via interactive technology ensured
authentic engagement, but did at times prevent the meeting
Investors Clients Suppliers engagement the Board would usually undertake if it were
in-person. Despite this, the Board is aware that a combination
of both virtual and in-person meetings is an effective way
of driving stakeholder engagement as it provides flexibility
and the opportunity to tailor interactions depending on
the participants.
Regardless of the format, Board activities led to a number of
Regulators and
Society Employees invaluable opportunities to engage with stakeholders across
governments
the Group’s diverse network, including those identified on the
following pages. Directors did not just engage collectively
with stakeholders, but also individually. Independent adviser
members to the Board, Board Risk Committee and Audit
The Board recognises the importance of stakeholder
Committee also engaged directly with them.
consideration and interaction. It forms a crucial part of Board
decisions and discussions, as well as the review of our purpose, Informal and formal sessions with stakeholders across our
values and strategy. footprint help provide INEDs and independent adviser
members with a comprehensive understanding of the
As the impact of COVID-19 started to lessen across many
Group’s market operations, implementation of strategy, and
of our markets, overseas travel was gradually reintroduced
the external and internal impact of the Group’s activities.
during the year. This was an opportunity for directors, either
collectively or individually, to engage in person with a wide Further detail regarding the Board’s engagement with
range of stakeholders, some for the first time since early 2020. our stakeholders can be found on the following pages.
Detail regarding how Board Committees and their
members engaged with stakeholders can be found in
the committee report sections starting from page 163.
Members of the Board, Management Team, directors from the Group’s banking subsidiaries and other colleagues during a
market visit to Dubai in November 2022
158 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 159
Directors’
report
Engagement with investors to promote greater awareness and understanding of
the strategy in their respective areas, as well as taking
the opportunity to receive investor feedback first hand.
Our approach
Aiming to deliver robust returns and long-term, Institutional shareholders
sustainable value for shareholders is of key importance The Group maintains a diverse, high-quality and
to the Board. We continuously reflect on how the Board predominantly institutional shareholder base. The Investor
engages with our investors, openly seeking feedback and Relations team has primary responsibility for managing
reviewing previous activities. We believe this strengthens day-to-day communications with these shareholders
engagements and helps support the Board’s focus on and provides support to the Group Chairman, Group
developing open and trusted relationships with investors. Chief Executive, Group Chief Financial Officer, other
Board members and senior management in conducting
Although travel restrictions in some markets limited
a comprehensive engagement programme.
in-person engagement at times, the Board was able to
physically meet with shareholders on a number of occasions. Presentation material and webcast transcripts
are made available on the Group’s website and can
Where directors could not meet with shareholders in
be viewed at sc.com/investors
person, a virtual approach was taken. As with last year, this
provided the opportunity to participate in events where
extensive travel may have restricted investors in the past.
Investor stewardship event
During the year, we maintained a comprehensive programme The Group Chairman hosted a stewardship
of engagement, including investor advisory bodies and event in November 2022 alongside the Senior
credit rating agencies, and provided updates on progress Independent Director and chairs of the Board
made to transform our business for improved returns. Risk, Audit, and Remuneration Committees. Given
the easing of travel restrictions in the UK, the
The Group Chairman and other Board directors had
event was held as a hybrid meeting which offered
direct contact with investors and advisory voting bodies
flexibility regarding how investors could engage.
during the year, and received regular updates from the
The Group Chairman provided a strategic update
Investor Relations team, including reports on market and
regarding Board and committee activities during
investor sentiment. An external independent investor
the year which was supplemented by opening
perception study was commissioned, which was then
remarks from the Remuneration Committee Chair.
considered by the Board. The Group Chairman, as part
This was followed by a question and answer (Q&A)
of his role, leads engagement with shareholders and
session. Questions could be submitted in advance
hosted the 2022 AGM alongside fellow Board members.
of the event, asked live in person or via a web-
The Group Chairman and certain Board members also
based platform for those who joined electronically.
held an investor stewardship event similar to last year.
Christine Hodgson, Chair of the Remuneration Committee
up until 31 December 2022, led the shareholder
consultation required following a significant minority Debt investors and credit rating agencies
vote against the Company directors’ remuneration
Our Debt Investor Relations team has primary responsibility
policy and report resolutions at the 2022 AGM. Maria
for managing the Group’s relationships with debt investors
Ramos took over from Christine Hodgson as Senior
and the three major rating agencies, with local market chief
Independent Director in September 2022. The Senior
executives and chief financial officers leading on smaller
Independent Director was available to shareholders
subsidiary ratings. In 2022, management met with debt
if they had concerns that could not be resolved or for
investors across Europe, North America and Asia, and
which the normal channels were inappropriate.
maintained a regular dialogue with the rating agencies.
Bill Winters and Andy Halford are the primary spokespeople It is important that the Group, as an active issuer of senior
for the Group. Throughout the year they engaged extensively unsecured and non-equity capital, maintains regular
with existing shareholders and potential new investors during contact with debt investors to ensure continued appetite
individual or group meetings and conferences, either in person for the Group’s credit. The Group’s credit ratings are a key
or virtually. In addition, each member of the Management part of the external perception of our financial strength
Team responsible for a client segment or a geographic region, and creditworthiness.
as well as the Group Treasurer, engaged with investors
Engagement with investors: what we did during 2022
February March April May June July
2021 full year results Conferences and 2022 first quarter AGM and Financial Markets 2022 half year
and roadshows roadshows results and conferences event and results
conferences conferences
August September October November December
Roadshows Conferences and 2022 third quarter Stewardship event, Conferences
roadshows results Consumer, Private &
Business Banking event
and conferences
Directors’ report Corporate governance
Engagement with investors continued
Further information can be
viewed at sc.com/investors
Retail shareholders
The Group Company Secretary oversees communication with our retail shareholders.
AGM
The meeting was held on 4 May 2022. We were pleased All Board-proposed resolutions were passed, with
that shareholders could attend in person for the first shareholder support for each ranging from 68.81 per cent
time since 2019 given the easing of restrictions on public to 100 per cent. We proposed our net zero pathway as
gatherings. In addition, in light of the success of last year’s a shareholder advisory resolution at the AGM. Market
digitally enabled meeting, we also offered shareholders Forces and Friends Provident Foundation filed a resolution
the opportunity to participate electronically via a live outlining a different approach. The Board appreciate the
web-portal. Within this portal, shareholders were able involvement of both of these organisations and share
to view a live video feed of the AGM, submit voting their commitment to the transition to net zero, however
instructions and questions in writing or ask them through the Board supported the Group’s strategic approach to
an audio line. Shareholders who attended the meeting in achieve this and recommended that shareholders support
person were able to submit voting instructions and ask our advisory resolution and oppose the requisitioned
questions directly. resolution. In line with the Board’s recommendation
the advisory resolution was endorsed with 83 per cent
The AGM is a key date in the Board’s calendar and the
of shareholder support at the 2022 AGM, and the
hybrid format ensured that shareholders could engage
requisitioned resolution did not pass. We remain very
with them regarding the Company’s recent performance
grateful for the support of our shareholders.
and strategic priorities. Questions received from
shareholders covered a diverse range of topics, including Detail regarding the directors’ remuneration report and
climate and the Group’s net zero pathway; diversity; the directors remuneration policy resolutions can be found in
Group’s strategy; shareholder engagement; share price the Directors’ Remuneration Report starting on page 184.
and regulatory developments.
Voting results from the 2022 AGM can be viewed at
sc.com/investors
A summary of responses to questions on key themes raised
by shareholders was made available on our website after the
meeting and can be found at sc.com/agm
Engagement with Engagement with
clients and suppliers regulators and governments
Clients are central to everything we do and promoting The Board, either collectively or individually, engages with
productive, sustainable relationships with them is a relevant authorities both in the UK and across our footprint on
key priority. Prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, customer a regular basis. During 2022, this took place via a number of
engagement was built into Board and director visits across virtual and physical forums. Topics varied, including recovery
our footprint and given the alleviation of travel restrictions from the pandemic, geopolitical developments, resolution
in certain markets, this method of interaction was planning, digitisation and innovation, climate-related matters
gradually reintroduced during the year. Board members, and cyber security. Certain regulators attended Board
either collectively or individually, met clients face-to-face meetings during the year, which provided the opportunity to
or virtually to keep abreast of developing client trends, discuss key items and developments. Further detail on how
experiences and needs. This also formed and will continue the Group engaged with regulators and governments more
to form a part of the director induction programme. In generally can be found on page 57 of the Strategic report.
addition, updates on clients’ insights form part of deep
dives into product segment strategy at Board meetings.
Suppliers provide efficient and sustainable goods and Engagement with society
services for our business and certain members of the
Board also met with them during the year. Detail on how
The Board receives regular updates from management
the Group more generally engaged with clients and
concerning the communities and environment in which
suppliers can be found on pages 55, 56, 58 and 59 of
we operate.
the Strategic report.
Either collectively or individually, directors were able to visit
some of the Group’s markets this year given the easing
of travel restrictions in certain markets. This provided a
productive opportunity to meet stakeholders in civil society.
In addition, external and internal speakers provided input to
the Board’s discussions, which covered key societal issues such
as climate change, the evolving geopolitical landscape, and
the continued impact of the pandemic in some of our markets.
Further detail on how the Group engaged with society more
generally can be found on page 59.
160 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 161
Directors’
report
Engagement and linkages with the Group’s subsidiaries
The Board and its committees recognise the importance of creating, maintaining and building upon appropriate linkages
with the Group’s subsidiaries. Similar to 2021, the Board’s ability to physically meet with people from across the Group’s
footprint remained limited. Despite this, the Group Chairman and INEDs engaged with the Group’s subsidiaries through a
number of forums. This included video-enabled chair and committee chair engagement sessions, as well as other forms
of interaction.
Global subsidiary governance conference • Group strategy, financial performance and
During the Board’s visit to Dubai in November, we held governance structure
our third global subsidiary governance conference. • The transformation taking place in the UAE from a
This two-day event was attended by members of the policy perspective
Board, Management Team and directors from the Group’s • Regional CEOs strategy session
banking subsidiaries. The conference presented the
• Building resilient business models and ecosystems for
opportunity for the Board to strengthen and reconnect its
the new economy
linkages with the Group’s subsidiary chairs, hear their views
on the progress of the Group’s strategy and discuss what • Strategic oversight of sustainability
improvements could be made in their markets, as well • Talent opportunity and changing workforce
as a range of other topics. It also enabled the Board and expectations
Management Team to gain a better appreciation of some
• Overview of the Dubai International Financial Centre
of the challenges and opportunities the Group faces across
(DIFC) Fintech hive.
its subsidiary markets. Items discussed across the two
days included:
The Group Chairman also hosted two subsidiary chair Items discussed during the call included:
engagement sessions during 2022, both held virtually. Each
• 2022 Board Risk Committee focus areas
event opened with specific topics introduced by the Group
Chairman, followed by a Q&A session. José Viñals was • Group Chief Risk Officer’s 2022 priorities
encouraged by the high level of interaction and sharing of • Update on Model Risk
best practices by our subsidiary chairs. Items discussed across
• Management scenarios undertaken during the year,
the sessions included:
including stagflation.
• Group performance, strategy and investor reaction
The Remuneration Committee Chair also held a
• 2022 Board priorities videoconference attended by the subsidiary remuneration
• UK Corporate Governance update committee chairs and the chairs of subsidiary boards that
have remuneration responsibilities. The Group Chairman;
• New ways of working for certain markets post COVID-19
members of the Remuneration Committee; Group Head,
• Areas of focus for the Group’s boards, including board Human Resources; Global Head, Performance, Reward
transformation and overseeing culture and Benefits; Head, Executive Compensation and Reward
• Sustainability. Governance; the regional, functional and business heads of
Pensions, Rewards and Benefits; and the Group Company
Committee chair engagement Secretary also participated in the call. The calls foster
knowledge sharing and best practice between the
The Audit Committee held its annual videoconference during
Company Remuneration Committee and the subsidiary
the year, followed by a Q&A session. This was hosted by
remuneration committees and raise awareness as
the Audit Committee Chair and attended by the chairs of
remuneration committees are increasingly expected to
subsidiary audit committees. The Group Financial Controller;
have oversight over the approach to remuneration for the
Group Head, Internal Audit; Regional Head, Audit, Europe
wider workforce. The topics that were discussed included:
and the Americas and Africa and the Middle East; Group
Head, Conduct, Financial Crime and Compliance; members • 2022 Remuneration Committee focus areas
of the Group’s statutory auditor, EY, including the lead audit
• Framework for subsidiary interaction
partner; the Group Company Secretary and the Committee
Secretary also participated in the call. Items discussed during • 2022 total variable compensation and ensuring strong
the call included: differentiation
• 2023 compensation in light of inflation and cost of
• 2022 Audit Committee focus areas
living pressures.
• Group Finance update, which featured financial results,
IFRS 9 models, overlays and a status report on the Group’s Other activities which took place during 2022 to further
Aspire Programme strengthen the linkages across the Group included:
• Conduct, financial crime and compliance update • the Group Chairman attended a Standard Chartered Bank
(Hong Kong) Limited (SCBHK) board meeting
• Group Internal Audit reporting to subsidiary audit committees
• Group statutory audit update from EY. • the Chair of the Group Audit Committee attended a
SCBHK audit committee meeting and the audit committee
The Board Risk Committee Chair hosted its annual
chair of Standard Chartered Bank (Singapore) Limited
videoconference with chairs of the subsidiary board
attended one Group Audit Committee Meeting
risk committees, followed by a Q&A session. The Group
Chairman; Group Chief Risk Officer; Global Head of • the Chair of the Board Risk Committee attended a SCBHK
Enterprise Risk Management and Deputy Chief Risk Officer board risk committee meeting.
Standard Chartered Bank; the Group Company Secretary Further detail regarding how the Group engages with its
and Committee Secretary also participated in the call. stakeholders can be found on pages 54 to 124
Directors’ report Corporate governance
Engagement with employees
The Board places great importance on workforce Given the easing of travel restrictions the Board was able
engagement and values its interactions at all levels of the to meet colleagues across parts of our footprint, both
Group. Two-way dialogue through a variety of forums collectively and individually. The diagram below illustrates
helps build the Board’s understanding of key issues and which markets were visited. During the year, directors
developments around its markets, as well as providing an appreciated being able to meet face-to-face with a
insight into the hands-on experiences of colleagues. number of employees, whether through formal meetings
or informal discussions. The opportunity to resume meeting
The role of the Board is distinct from management, and
the workforce in person is something directors found highly
the directors are aware of the importance of overseeing,
beneficial and will continue to form part of the approach
supporting and, where necessary, challenging management
for 2023.
in implementing its people strategy. In light of this, the Board
tasked the Culture and Sustainability Committee to oversee Through our comprehensive employee listening
a review of the existing framework with management, programme, the Board has an opportunity to understand
considering certain adjustments aimed to enhance the diverse employee perspectives. This is comprised of
Board workforce engagement. an annual engagement survey, a continuous listening
programme, lifecycle surveys and diagnostic research on
The Board continued to adopt an alternative approach
specific areas of focus, such as flexible working, wellbeing
to the workforce engagement methods set out in the UK
and performance management. The Board can also access
Corporate Governance Code. The primary reason for taking
data on employee issues through our Speak Up channel.
a different approach was that, as a global organisation with
more than 83,000 employees across 59 diverse markets, it is Further detail regarding employee engagement this year can
be found within the Culture and Sustainability Committee
vital that any Board engagement should gather unfiltered
report starting on page 176
feedback which is representative of the whole workforce in
order to be truly effective.
Director travel: an opportunity to engage with the workforce and other stakeholders
Directors, either together
or individually, visited a range of
markets.
Europe and the Americas
1. France
2. Germany 3
3. UK 2
4 1
4. US 13
Africa and Middle East 7 6 8 11 9 10
16
5. Kenya 5 14 15
12
6. Qatar
7. Saudi Arabia
8. UAE
Asia
9. Bangladesh
10. Hong Kong
11. India
12. Indonesia
13. Korea
Dubai, UAE Singapore
14. Malaysia
15. Singapore On 10 November, the Board hosted an The Board travelled to Singapore in
16. Vietnam informal lunch with the UAE talent. They March 2022. Although pandemic-related
invited a number of top talents who came restrictions on social gatherings remained
from various business segments, support in place, which limited the amount of
functions and backgrounds, representing engagement permitted, the Board took
the diversity of the UAE franchise. José advantage of meeting with a wide
Viñals and Maria Ramos also hosted a range of stakeholders where possible,
townhall for all employees, alongside including informal discussions with
members of the Management Team. senior leaders and other colleagues.
162 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Directors’ report Corporate governance
Activities during the year
Financial • Satisfied itself that the Group’s accounting policies and practices are appropriate.
reporting • Reviewed the clarity and completeness of the disclosures made within the published financial
statements, in particular, that they are fair, balanced and understandable.
• Monitored the integrity of the Group’s published financial statements and formal announcements
relating to the Group’s financial performance, reviewing the significant financial judgements, estimates
and accounting issues.
• Considered any changes in disclosures arising from best practice in applying the UK Finance Code for
Financial Reporting Disclosure, recommendations from the Taskforce on Disclosures on Expected Credit
Losses (ECL), high-quality practices with regard to implementation of ECL suggested by the Prudential
Regulation Authority (PRA) and Financial Reporting Council (FRC) publications on aspects of UK
reporting and disclosure requirements from the Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-Related
Financial Disclosures (TCFD).
Significant accounting judgements considered during 2022 are shown below.
The Committee can confirm that the key judgements and significant issues reported are consistent with the
disclosures of key estimation uncertainties and critical judgements as set out in Note 1 starting on page 348.
Key area Action taken
Impairment of Reviewed and challenged, on a quarterly basis, reports detailing the
loans and composition and credit quality of the loan book, concentrations of risk and
provisioning levels.
advances
Reviewed, considered and challenged judgemental Post Model Adjustments
(PMAs) and management overlays in both the wholesale and retail portfolios
on a quarterly basis that were required to estimate ECL. Careful consideration,
review and challenge were placed on the China CRE overlay. In the case of
PMAs, some models’ performance breached monitoring standards or validation
standards necessitating adjustments. In the case of management overlays
mainly to deal with the impact of COVID-19, the COVID-19 overlay for Corporate,
Commercial and Institutional Banking (CCIB) has been fully released and for
Consumer, Private and Business Banking (CPBB) has been significantly reduced,
as the outlook has improved during 2022.
As well as the expectation of elevated losses in industries and locations, paid
particular attention to the China CRE sector and certain sovereigns, including
Sri Lanka, Pakistan and Ghana, which have deteriorated during 2022. In respect
of high-risk credit grade exposures, the Committee was also briefed on
business plans, including remedial actions and management assessment
of the recoveries and collateral available. The Committee challenged the
completeness of these overlays and reviewed and considered when such
management overlays would be released.
Reviewed the appropriateness of management’s economic forecasts
and the adjustments to provisions to incorporate the effect of multiple
economic scenarios.
The Committee was briefed on the redevelopment of the Group’s Monte Carlo
model in Q4 2022 to incorporate a wider range of scenario outcomes than the
previous model with the effect of increasing non-linearity in the model output.
The Committee reviewed and challenged the judgement to release the
previously held PMA for the CCIB portfolios and retain the PMA for CPBB as
a result of the output of these model changes.
The Committee reviewed the Group’s high-level quantitative assessment of the
impact of Climate Risk on the Group’s ECL and considered the materiality of the
impact and the judgement to disclose a potential range of impact rather than
adjust the ECL given the limited impact.
The Committee was briefed on the performance of the International Financial
Reporting Standard (IFRS) 9 models and the remediation plans in place to
address material non-performance issues, where these had been identified.
The Committee considered the appropriateness of the staging of higher-
risk loans.
Goodwill Reviewed management’s annual assessment of goodwill impairment, covering
impairment key assumptions (including forecasts, discount rate and significant changes
from the previous year), headroom availability and sensitivities to possible
changes in key assumptions and related disclosures.
164 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Directors’ report Corporate governance
Activities during the year continued
Going concern • Reviewed management’s process, assessment and conclusions with respect to the Group’s going concern
assessment and assessment and viability statement, including the forward-looking Corporate Plan cashflows, the results
of stress tests that explore the resilience of the Group to shocks to its balance sheet and business model,
viability statement
principal and emerging risks, liquidity and capital positions and key assumptions. The Committee also
ensured that the going concern assessment and viability statement is consistent with the Group’s
Strategic report and other risk disclosures.
Further details can be found on pages 219, 231 and 350
Fair, balanced and • The Committee considered, satisfied itself and recommended to the Board, that the processes
understandable and procedures in place ensure that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and
understandable, and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s
position and performance, business model and strategy, and the business risks it faces. The statement
is underpinned by the Committee’s, and the Board’s, belief that all important elements have been
disclosed; and that the descriptions of the Group’s business as set out in the Strategic report are
consistent with those used for financial reporting in the Group’s financial statements.
Examples of • EY regional partner overviews: Received country/regional overviews from EY’s local regional partners
deeper discussions from China, Hong Kong, Korea and Taiwan. These overviews provided insight into the challenges faced in
the Group’s markets from a statutory audit perspective; and provided the Committee with the local audit
into specific topics
partner’s views on internal controls, as well as perspectives on how the Group compares against local
peers. The overviews also provided insight into local regulatory developments, engagement with local
regulators and areas of focus for 2022. This year, a technical discussion on IFRS 9 ECL – Credit Update was
also held, with EY’s Specialist Partners providing perspective and peer comparison. These EY regional
partner overviews and technical topics will continue in 2023 and beyond.
• UK audit and corporate governance reforms implementation approach: Received and discussed
papers setting out the key components of the proposed UK audit and corporate governance reforms,
the work completed by the Group and the work to be undertaken to strengthen the control environment
within Finance in advance of the final rules being published. Discussion focused on the importance of
end-to-end controls gap analysis, including clear hand-offs and hand-ins and the changes that will
need to be managed as a result of a strengthened control environment. The proposed approach for
an Audit and Assurance Policy was also discussed, with the Committee providing feedback on this.
• Financial regulatory reporting: Received and discussed updates on the Group’s Financial Regulatory
Reporting Remediation Programme. Discussion focused on the challenges involved with resourcing,
given the specialist skills required and financial/liquidity reporting in the Group’s network.
• Aspire programme: Discussed an update on the Group’s Aspire programme (a programme launched
in 2018 to deliver a modern technology systems and data landscape for financial management and
reporting). Discussion focused on resources, timelines and the impacts of migration to the cloud.
• Internal financial controls: Received and discussed a paper setting out the approach taken to safeguard
the production of the Group’s financial books and records.
• IFRS 9 models: Received and discussed updates on the Group’s use of IFRS 9 ECL models.
• Finance resourcing: Reviewed and discussed a paper providing assurance that the Accounting and
Financial Reporting function is adequately and appropriately resourced; the qualifications, experience
and training of colleagues is appropriate; and the budget allocated is sufficient to maintain external
reporting obligations, including climate disclosures.
• Tax update: Received and discussed a paper setting out an update on international tax reform and a
review of tax exposures and deferred tax assets. EY’s Tax Partner was invited to join this discussion to
add perspective.
• Information technology access controls: Received and discussed reports on the work under way to
improve the Group’s IT access controls in light of weaknesses identified during prior years’ audits.
The Committee discussed how management is working to remediate the observations raised by EY and
sought assurance that this matter is receiving senior management attention. We had the benefit of EY’s
Technology Risk Partner join these discussions, to provide independent perspective and peer comparison.
This will continue to be an area of focus for 2023.
• Data management: Received and discussed papers on the Group’s Data Management Framework,
following on from discussions held in 2021. The H1 2022 discussion focused on the reporting on of
timelines, with feedback provided as to how this would be more useful for the Committee to track
progress. The H2 2022 discussion focused on what had gone well and less well throughout the year, and
challenges involved with cross-border data transfer in the Group’s footprint and managing competing
national requirements. Further feedback was provided on the reporting of timelines which will return to
the Committee in 2023.
• Conduct: Received and discussed an annual report on the Group Conduct Programme.
• Use of Private Communication Channels: Several discussions were held on the risks faced by the Group
from inappropriate use of private communication channels such as WhatsApp and WeChat, the actions
being taken, the reliance on colleagues’ personal judgement and the increased regulatory scrutiny on
this. Data sovereignty changes, for example, in China, were discussed. The Committee counselled on the
need to undertake a prioritised approach, to ensure that training and Group-wide communications are
clear and the importance of managing the expectations of clients.
• FCA Consumer Duty: Reviewed, discussed and scrutinised Standard Chartered Bank’s implementation
plans. Particular focus was placed on vulnerable customers and how this legislation might impact the
Group’s wider footprint. Phil Rivett was appointed as the FCA Consumer Duty Board Champion.
• Major disputes, significant regulatory and government investigations: Received and discussed two
updates on major disputes and significant regulatory government investigations facing the Group.
166 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Directors’ report Corporate governance
I am pleased to present the Board Risk Committee’s report for the year
ended 31 December 2022. The Committee has been immersed in a
Board Risk Committee
broad range of financial and non-financial risk management issues
pertinent to the Group, set against the backdrop of a volatile,
challenging and complex operating environment. Cognisant of this
evolving external landscape, the Committee has paid attention to key
“The Committee has macroeconomic issues, geopolitical and emerging risks, as well as key
evolving regulatory themes. The current and future implications for
carefully considered the
the Group have been discussed and challenged, including the actions
challenges posed by being taken and planned by management to mitigate these risks.
The Committee has carefully considered the challenges posed by
inflation, commodity inflation, commodity prices, interest rates, FX and the lingering
effects of COVID-19, including lockdowns in China and Hong Kong.
prices, interest rates,
The impacts of this on sovereign risk and credit risk, in particular,
FX and the lingering China CRE, have been reviewed and challenged regularly, to ensure
that all associated risks are being adequately managed. We have also
effects of COVID-19”
continued to seek assurances that sufficient resources are in place to
manage these complex risks.
There have been a number of changes to the composition of the
Committee composition Committee in 2022. Naguib Kheraj stepped down as Chair on 30 April,
upon which Phil Rivett was appointed Interim Chair. Following receipt of
Scheduled meetings Ad hoc the necessary regulatory approvals, I became Chair on 1 August. Shirish
Maria Ramos (Chair) 6/6 2/2 Apte and Robin Lawther joined the Committee on 4 May and 1 July
respectively. I would like to convey the Committee’s gratitude to Naguib
David Conner 6/6 2/2 for his immense contribution and leadership as both a member and
Chair. Mark Smith, our GCRO, retired from the Group at the end of the
Gay Huey Evans, CBE 6/6 2/2 year, and I would like to express our thanks to Mark for his dedication
and valuable contributions to the Committee’s deliberations and to
Naguib Kheraj1 2/2 1/1 the Group more broadly, over the last seven years. Mark’s replacement,
Sadia Ricke joined the Group on 1 February, (currently awaiting
Phil Rivett 6/6 2/2 regulatory approval), after successfully completing a rigorous selection
David Tang2 6/6 1/2 process. She brings a broad range of financial and risk experience,
as well as a good understanding of our footprint markets. I also want
Carlson Tong 6/6 2/2 to thank our regulators, for their constructive approach, advice and
sharing of best practice, which assists to make the Group more resilient.
Shirish Apte3 3/3 1/1 Resolvability has been a key area of focus. At the beginning of the year,
we held a dedicated meeting to focus on the Group’s Resolution
Robin Lawther, CBE4 3/3 N/A self-assessment report, ahead of approval by the Board and submission
to the PRA and Bank of England (BoE). Furthermore, regular discussions
1 Naguib stepped down from the Committee on 30 April 2022
on Resolvability have taken place throughout the year. The Committee
2 David was unable to attend one ad hoc meeting due to a prior and Board remained focused on Resolvability and enhancements
business commitment
have been made to our Resolution capabilities, in terms of addressing
3 Shirish joined the Committee on 4 May 2022 shortcomings and developing our areas of enhancement. We have also
4 Robin joined the Committee on 1 July 2022 paid close attention as to how the expectations of the UK regulators
are being met. Board and Committee engagements have taken place
Who else attended Committee meetings in 2022? via formal discussions and training sessions, including a simulation
The Group Chairman; Group Chief Executive; Group Chief exercise, which was useful to understand the various implications for
Financial Officer; Group Chief Risk Officer (GCRO); Group the Group and a number of its key subsidiaries. Resolvability will remain
General Counsel; Group Treasurer; Group Head, Conduct, a key agenda item throughout 2023.
Financial Crime & Compliance; Group Head, Internal Audit; ICS Risk management is presented to the Committee by management
the Group’s Statutory Auditor and Group Company Secretary. four times a year. While significant progress has been made, we
Sir Iain Lobban, independent adviser to the Board, regularly acknowledge that there is still more work to be done to reach our
attends discussions on Information and Cyber Security (ICS) Risk, desired sustainable control environment and defensive position.
technology and Financial Crime (FC) Risk-related matters. Paul We have had the benefit of Sir Iain Lobban, our Board independent
Khoo, an independent adviser to the Board, attends discussions adviser, attend all ICS discussions to provide independent and specialist
on FC Risk-related matters. EY attended all Committee meetings perspective. The Committee reviewed the Group’s ICS Strategy ahead
in 2022. As part of, and in addition to scheduled Committee of approval by the Board; and we also reviewed the findings of the
meetings, the Committee held private members-only meetings. CBEST Threat Intelligence-Led exercise. Given the evolution of ICS Risk,
The Committee’s membership comprises INEDs who have a deep this will remain an area of focus for 2023.
and broad experience of banking and the risk factors affecting
With the retirement of the Board Financial Crime Risk Committee
the Group, including geopolitical, economic, IT, FC and general
on 1 April 2022, we have placed focus on FC Risk to ensure that this
business risks.
continues to receive sufficient oversight and scrutiny. The Committee
Biographical details of the Committee members can be received reports from CCIB and CPBB on their strategy, top risks and
viewed on pages 138 to 142
how these are being mitigated and managed with focused discussion
on FC risk.
What are the main responsibilities of the Committee?
We have placed increased attention on stress testing and tail risks,
The Committee is responsible for exercising oversight, on
for example running scenarios on stagflation, sovereign default and
behalf of the Board, of the key risks of the Group. It reviews
commodity prices as well as our key regulatory stresses, such as during
the Group’s Risk Appetite Statement and Enterprise Risk
the 2022 BoE Stress Test results. We have reviewed and discussed
Management Framework (ERMF) and makes recommendations
geopolitical risks, including China and Russia. We are mindful of the
to the Board. Its responsibilities also include reviewing
need to continue to probe into the dark corners, and as the economy
the appropriateness and effectiveness of the Group’s risk
shows signs of recovery, to maintain the Group’s credit discipline. As a
management systems, considering the implications of material
result, we have had a renewed focus on implementing an appropriate
regulatory change proposals, reviewing reports on principal
Risk Appetite framework. The following pages provide insight and
risks, including Climate Risk, to the Group’s business, and
context into the Committee’s work and activities during the year.
ensuring effective due diligence on material acquisitions and
disposals. The Committee Chair reports to the Board on the
Committee’s key areas of focus following each meeting.
The Committee has written Terms of Reference that can be
Maria Ramos
viewed at sc.com/termsofreference
Chair of the Board Risk Committee
170 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 173
Directors’
report
Activities during the year continued
Principal Risk Financial Crime Risk
Types continued Financial Crime Risk is the potential for legal or regulatory penalties, material financial loss or reputational
damage resulting from the failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations relating to international
sanctions, anti-money laundering, anti-bribery and corruption and fraud.
Given the progress made on the Board Financial Crime Risk Committee’s (BFCRC) purpose with respect to
Financial Crime Risk management, the Board reallocated the work of the BFCRC to the Audit Committee,
Board Risk Committee and Board with effect from 1 April 2022. The reallocation of BFCRC oversight enables
a more holistic and efficient examination and discussion of risks that are closely linked.
The Committee discussed Financial Crime issues as part of its regular business deep dives. It also considered
a paper setting out emerging Financial Crime threats for the Group and what is being done to mitigate
and manage these threats. Specific risks related to sanctions, particularly in relation to Russia, were
also discussed.
Stress testing The objective of stress testing is to support the Group in assessing that it:
• does not have a portfolio with excessive risk concentration that could produce unacceptably high losses
under severe but plausible scenarios
• has sufficient financial resources to withstand severe but plausible scenarios
• has the financial flexibility to respond to extreme but plausible scenarios
• understands the key business model risks and considers what kind of event might crystallise those risks –
even if extreme with a low likelihood of occurring – and identifies, as required, actions to mitigate the
likelihood or impact as required.
The Committee provided oversight, challenge and, where required, approval for:
• the scenario and stress test results for the 2022 Group ILAAP stress test
• the scenarios and results for the 2022 Group ICAAP stress test and reverse stress test
• the results for the BoE ACS stress test
• the results for the Group’s Recovery Plan stress test
• the Group’s Recovery Plan
• a number of internal management defined scenarios were reviewed.
Further details of stress testing are set out on pages 297 and 298
Internal controls Discussed reports from the Group Head, Internal Audit which provided summaries of GIA’s appraisals of
controls across key risks, subject to the Committee’s oversight, together with the key risk issues identified by
GIA’s work and management actions put in place to address the findings.
The Audit Committee and the Culture and Sustainability Committee discuss separate reports from the
Group Head, Internal Audit on GIA’s appraisal of controls across key risk types, subject to each respective
Committee’s oversight.
Remuneration as a Considered advice provided by the Interim GCRO to the Remuneration Committee concerning the risk
risk management factors to be taken into account by the Remuneration Committee in determining incentives for the Group
Chief Executive and other colleagues. Such advice assists the Remuneration Committee in its assessment
tool
as to whether the Group’s remuneration policy, practices and procedures are consistent with and promote
sound and effective risk management, and do not encourage risk-taking that exceeds the level of tolerated
risk of the Group.
Further details concerning the Group’s approach to using remuneration as a risk
management tool is set out in the Directors’ remuneration report.
Regulatory Resolvability
The Committee held a number of discussions on Resolvability over the course of the year, including
scheduling an ad hoc meeting earlier in the year to review and challenge the Group’s Resolution self-
assessment report, ahead of Board approval and submission to the PRA and BoE. Non-Committee
members attended this ad hoc meeting, as well as the Group’s external consultants.
Resolvability is discussed at most Committee meetings with representation from the three lines of defence,
so that the Committee receives a holistic overview of progress being made and items being worked on.
The Committee has also had the benefit of enhanced reporting and metrics to assist its oversight.
Furthermore, there have been more informal training sessions and briefings held at Board-level to
ensure that Committee members have the opportunity to discuss some of the more complex issues
that Resolvability presents for the Group.
The Committee Chair, Group Chairman and Audit Committee Chair also participated in a number of
additional meetings related to Resolvability with the internal team, external advisers and regulators.
Resolvability will remain a key priority for 2023.
Climate Biennial Exploratory Scenario (CBES) stress test
The Committee reviewed, discussed and challenged the Group’s CBES response, ahead of submission to
the BoE. In particular, focus and challenge was placed on the assumptions made by management and the
supporting numbers.
Later in the year, the Committee received a paper setting out the results of the Group’s first set of
management scenarios, focused on the impact of Climate Risk on the Group’s portfolio and the next steps.
Further detail on Climate Risk can be found on pages 316 and 317
Directors’ report Corporate governance
Activities during the year continued
Regulatory Operational resilience – Important Business Services and Impact Tolerance Statements
continued In line with regulatory objectives, the Committee reviewed and recommended to the Board for approval:
• changes to the Group’s Important Business Services arising from the annual review
• changes to the Group’s Impact Tolerance Statements arising from the annual review
• the Group’s Operational Resilience self-assessment.
IBOR transition
Received updates from an industry and Group perspective on the IBOR transition. The Committee
continues to seek assurance that this transition programme remains on track, delivery risks are adequately
managed and that it is sufficiently resourced. This will continue to be reviewed and discussed throughout
2023.
BCBS 239 Principles
In May 2022, the Committee received and discussed an update on the outcome of the BCBS 239 self-
assessment as of end 2021 and the roadmap for compliance with BCBS 239.
At the end of the year, the Committee received an update on the trajectory of the BCBS 239 Programme,
including the progress made and challenges faced.
The Committee will receive an update on the level of compliance (as at 31 December 2022), once the
outcome of the self-assessment is available on 28 February 2023.
Group regulator The Committee discussed key communications from the PRA and FCA, where risk and Resolvability were
communications the main themes.
Examples of • Blue Sky Thinking/Horizon Scanning: Held a horizon scanning session where risk perspectives were
deeper discussions sought from three Group senior colleagues. There were a number of outputs from this session, which
were incorporated into our rolling agenda.
into specific topics
• CCIB Risk deep dive: Received and discussed papers covering the CCIB Risk review, and ICS Risk and FC
Risk in CCIB. The top risk issues for CCIB were discussed, with specific focus placed on ICS and FC risks.
• Stressed Assets Risk (SAR): Reviewed and discussed the transfer of responsibility from the second line
of defence to the first line. The Committee monitored how this transition is working and its overall
effectiveness.
• Review of the Commodity Traders Framework: Reviewed and provided feedback on the workplan
responding to the PRA’s observations.
• Credit Portfolio Management (CPM) Annual Review: Reviewed and discussed the risks relating to
CPM activities and the progress made in optimising asset quality and liquidity and the effective use
of distribution.
• Cloud governance: The Committee has received regular updates on cloud material deployments and
enhanced reporting was discussed and agreed.
• Reputational and Sustainability Risk: Discussed a paper setting out the Group’s approach to
Environmental, Social and Governance risk and key enhancements made and planned.
• CPBB Risk review: Received and discussed papers covering the CPBB Risk review and managing risks
arising from partnership-driven business models. Focus was placed on partnership governance, the risks
arising from and associated with partnerships and controls in Business Banking. A separate paper on
ICS Risk and FC Risk was received and discussed, to ensure that these important risks are receiving
sufficient focus and attention.
• Change Management: Received a paper on change management. Discussion focused on
effective priorisation.
• Safety and Security Risk: Received an update on safety and security issues over the last 12 months.
• Credit Risk review: Reviewed progress reports from the Credit Risk review function, which set out key
themes from the 2022 reviews and the review plan for 2023. Discussion focused on the sufficiency of
resources and the importance of site-visits now that COVID-19-related restrictions are lifting in many
of the Group’s markets.
• Chief Risk Officer Treasury report: Discussed a paper from the Treasury Chief Risk Officer following the
establishment of the function within Enterprise Risk Management in January 2022. This included risk
observations and recommendations around the current balance sheet and management of capital
and liquidity.
• SC Ventures Risk and Governance: Discussed the paper setting out an overview of the business activities,
risk profile and governance model of the SC Ventures business unit.
• Taiwan: Discussed a paper on Taiwan tensions, impact analysis and stress testing and reviewed the
actions that had been proposed by management.
• Appointment of new GCRO: The Committee carefully reviewed, scrutinised and challenged the
appointment of the new GCRO, ahead of recommendation to the Board for approval.
174 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Directors’ report Corporate governance
At the 2022 AGM, the Group pledged to follow a roadmap that
aims to see it achieve its net zero goal by 2050 and the Committee,
Culture and
alongside the Board, is tracking progress against this roadmap.
The Group is well placed to assist clients in transitioning away from
Sustainability carbon-intensive industries. This is particularly pertinent as a number
of countries in the Group’s footprint do not yet have a net zero pledge.
I am pleased to report that this programme is on track, with the
Committee milestones outlined in the Group’s public net zero roadmap having
been met for 2022.
In my last report I described the latest chapter of the Group’s
“The Committee has
transformation agenda, which includes a focus on becoming truly
overseen the redefining purpose-led by taking three Stands: Accelerating Zero, Lifting
Participation and Resetting Globalisation. During this year, the
of the Group’s culture
Committee monitored progress on how the Stands were coming to
aspiration to better life across the organisation, including deep dives with business leaders
who shared the initiatives currently in place and plans for the future.
reflect the desire for
This year, the Committee has overseen the redefining of the Group’s
high performance
culture aspiration to better reflect the desire for high performance
and excellence.” and excellence, the need for transparent management of risk and a
‘One Bank’ mindset. The new cultural definition is framed around
ambition, action and accountability.
Committee composition Exemplary leadership within the Group is essential to the Committee’s
agenda, such as embedding the Group’s culture and ensuring we
Scheduled meetings deliver on our Purpose. It’s therefore important for the Committee to
oversee the work that the Group is doing to engage our leaders at all
Jasmine Whitbread (Chair) 4/4
levels to aspire, inspire and execute. The Committee heard from a
Christine Hodgson, CBE 4/4 Leadership Council member who gave first-hand experience of how
investment in our leaders is being implemented in practice and, more
David Tang 4/4 importantly, the impact this was having.
David Conner1 3/3 The Committee is responsible for the Board workforce engagement
programme and this year kicked off a review of the current
Jackie Hunt2 1/1 framework, to determine if an alternate model could enhance the
Board-colleague connection. This will be concluded and implemented
R
C
o
B
b
E
i
2
n Lawther, 1/1
in 2023.
1 David stepped down from the Committee on 1 October 2022. Focus on the Group’s diversity and inclusion initiatives continued, and
2 Jackie and Robin joined the Committee on 1 October 2022. the Committee was pleased with progress across all three strands
of work: Best Place to Work (colleagues), Best Place to Bank (clients)
and Prosperous Communities (supply chain and communities).
Who else attended Committee meetings in 2022? The Committee asked the team to increase focus on ethnic
The Group Chairman; Group Chief Executive; Group Head, diversity to ensure our leadership is representative of our client
Human Resources; Group Head, Corporate Affairs, Brand and base and footprint.
Marketing; Chief Sustainability Officer, Group General Counsel
We continued our practice of inviting external speakers to challenge
and Group Company Secretary.
our thinking. This year, the Committee hosted a thought-provoking
Biographical details of committee members can be found session on how sustainability is viewed in China, delivered by a
on pages 138 to 142 pre-eminent industry leader. All Board directors were invited to
this session.
What are the main responsibilities of the Committee?
This will be my last report from the Committee as I stand down from
The Committee was formed by the Board to oversee the Group’s the Board at the 2023 AGM. It has been a real pleasure to chair this
culture and sustainability priorities. Committee (and its previous incarnation) over eight years, during
The Committee has written Terms of Reference that which time our agenda has developed very meaningfully along with
can be viewed at sc.com/termsofreference the Group’s strategy and the wider environment. I’d like to thank all
my colleagues past and present who should feel proud of what they
have achieved. Particular thanks to Christine Hodgson, who stood
down from the Board and the Committee on 31 January 2023, for
her unwavering dedication and significant contribution to the
Committee’s evolution over the past nine years.
Finally, I’d like to welcome the two new members of the Committee,
Robin Lawther and Jackie Hunt, who have already started to make a
positive impact in the Committee’s deliberations, and I wish them well
as they take the Committee forward.
The following report provides further insight into the Committee’s
work during the year.
Jasmine Whitbread
Chair of the Culture and Sustainability Committee
176 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 177
Directors’
report
Activities during the year
Sustainability and The Committee:
environmental, • Continued to oversee the Group’s progress on the net zero pledge made at the 2022 AGM, and while the
social and Group has a number of challenges due to its diverse footprint, the ambition is progressing
governance • Monitored the assessment of the Group’s performance by the various external agencies on its approach
(ESG) matters to ESG matters, focusing on the agencies that the investors prioritised
• Received a progress update on the current five-year Global Community Engagement Strategy,
`Futuremakers’ and the priorities due by the end of 2023; and a look forward to the Futuremakers
Phase 2 Strategy for 2024 to 2030, which will be presented to the Committee in March 2023
• Welcomed the Group’s inaugural Chief Sustainability Officer as a standing attendee, who presented
a refreshed Sustainability Strategy to the Board in Q4.
Stands Following the launch of the three stands of focus: Accelerating Zero, Lifting Participation and Resetting
Globalisation in 2021, there were two deep dives at which business leaders presented to the Committee
on how the Stands were being ‘lived’ in practice:
• The first was from CPBB and focused on four key areas: mass market to lift participation; initiatives in small
and medium enterprises (SME); ESG Products/Sustainable Finance; and Talent development initiatives.
A number of initiatives were ongoing and a progress update from CPBB will be given to the Committee
in 2023
• The second was from the new Chief Sustainability Officer and focused on the work taking place on
the Accelerating Zero Stand, consolidation of the Group’s sustainability aspirations and the Group’s
performance against the Group Sustainability Scorecard Metrics.
More deep dives are planned for 2023.
Culture and The Committee:
Diversity and • Oversaw the redefining of the Group’s cultural aspiration to ensure that it sufficiently reflects the need for
Inclusion high performance and excellence in all we do
• Reviewed the Group’s approach to diversity and inclusion and discussed the various strands of diversity
and the progress that was being made for each
• Worked with Group Internal Audit to establish an approach to assessing behavioural risk during audit
activities and received the first report of the output of this enhanced audit approach at the meeting in
December 2022.
Board workforce The Committee has responsibility for overseeing the Board’s workforce engagement programme and
engagement and ensuring workforce policies and practices remain consistent with the Group’s valued behaviours.
workforce policies The Committee is overseeing a review of the existing framework and considering certain adjustments
aimed to enhance Board workforce engagement.
and practices
During the year, the Committee has overseen the following activity:
• The annual employee engagement survey, My Voice, and probed the results to understand what was
driving the scores and challenged the team on areas for improvement. More information on listening to
our employees can be found on pages 60 to 63
• Monitored the impact of hybrid working on team members, particularly in relation to learning and career
development for more junior team members and how changes in working patterns could be affecting
mental health
• The continued implementation of a Leadership Agreement, which all leaders will need to pledge to in
2023. More information on the Leadership Agreement can be found on page 61
• Reviewed the initiatives for the development and assessment of leaders throughout the Group
• Reviewed the initiatives ongoing to improve psychological safety across the Group and the importance
of strong leadership from both the top and throughout the layers of management
• An informal lunch, hosted by the Board, with the UAE talent which provided an opportunity for the Board
to hear directly from staff on how the Group’s direction and strategy was lived and embedded in different
parts of the Group
• An interactive UAE townhall , hosted by the Group Chairman with members of the Board and
Management Team. Over 500 colleagues attended in person and were encouraged to ask questions
directly to the panel. In addition, it was live-streamed and facilitated by an online question and answer
platform to enable engagement across the business.
Further detail regarding Board workforce engagement can be found on page 162
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 179
Directors’
report
This year has seen a number of significant changes to the composition
of the Board, following the retirement of a number of our long-
Governance
standing and valued independent non-executive directors. I would
like to thank Naguib Kheraj, former Deputy Chairman and Chair of
the Board Risk Committee who retired from the Board in April for his
and Nomination
dedication and significant and impactful contributions to the Board
and Committee discussions. My thanks also go to Byron Grote who
retired from the Board in November for his many contributions to
Committee
the Board and its Committees. I would also like to thank Christine
Hodgson, former Senior Independent Director and Chair of the
Remuneration Committee for her insightful contributions as well as
“The Committee has been for agreeing to remain on the Board until 31 January 2023 to ensure
a smooth transition to a new Remuneration Committee Chair,
focused on planning for
Shirish Apte. Before recommending the short extension beyond her
the transition of our long- nine-year term, the Committee conducted a robust assessment of her
independence. We also announced that Jasmine Whitbread would
standing non-executive not be seeking re-election at the 2023 AGM and would retire from the
Board at that time.
directors, ensuring that
The Committee has been focused on planning for the transition of
the Board remains
our long-standing non-executive directors, ensuring that the Board
well balanced.” remains well balanced with a strong pipeline of candidates with
the appropriate skillsets, experience and capabilities, specifically
Committee composition across banking and financial services; executive and non-executive
global listed experience; remuneration committee experience; and
Scheduled meetings Ad hoc broad market and gender diversity. Over the course of 2022, and
with the assistance of an external search firm we shortlisted and
José Viñals (Chair) 4/4 2/2 recommended to the Board the appointment of four experienced
Naguib Kheraj1 2/2 N/A independent non-executive directors, Shirish Apte, Robin Lawther,
Jackie Hunt and Linda Yueh, each of whom bring elements of these
Maria 1/1 1/1 key attributes to the Board discussion. Details on each of the new
Ramos2 directors can be found on pages 139, 141 and 142.
Christine Hodgson, CBE3 4/4 2/2 As well as focusing on the search for new directors, we also spent a
great deal of time refreshing the committees’ succession, notably the
Jasmine Whitbread4 3/4 1/2
Chairs of the Board Risk and Remuneration Committees. This resulted
Phil Rivett 4/4 2/2 in the appointment of Maria Ramos and Shirish Apte taking on the
respective roles. Maria Ramos also took on the Senior Independent
Shirish Apte observed a number of meetings in 2022 ahead of his Director role from Christine Hodgson upon her reaching her nine-
appointment to the Committee on 1 January 2023 year tenure.
1 Naguib stepped down from the Committee on 30 April 2022 Earlier in the year, the Committee considered the significant progress
2 Maria joined the Committee on 1 August 2022 which had been made by the Board Financial Crime Risk Committee
in the area of financial crime risk since it was formed, and in line
3 Christine stepped down from the Committee on 31 December 2022
with the recommendations of the 2020 Board effectiveness review,
4 Jasmine was unable to attend one scheduled meeting and one ad hoc
recommended to the Board that its work was reallocated to a
held on 8 November 2022 and 21 July 2022 respectively as a result of
long-standing external board commitments combination of the Board Risk Committee, Audit Committee and the
Board, signalling a significant milestone in this area for the Group.
Who else attended Committee meetings in 2022? Detail of the Committee’s annual review of the Board Diversity Policy
and its assessment of progress against it can be found on pages 180
The Group Chief Executive; Group Head, HR; and Group
to 182. Following the significant realignment of the Policy a couple
Company Secretary.
of years ago, only one material change was recommended in 2022,
Biographical details of the committee members to increase the representation of women on the Board to at least
can be viewed on pages 138 to 142 40 per cent, reflecting the Board’s continued commitment to further
balancing female representation on the Board and to align to the
What are the main responsibilities of the Committee? Financial Conduct Authority’s (FCA) changes to the Listing Rules in
The Committee has responsibility for keeping the size, structure this area.
and composition of the Board and its committees under review. As part of the Committee’s governance oversight role, we continued
As part of the Committee’s succession planning for the Board, to receive updates from the three regional CEOs who each have
it takes into account the Group’s strategy and challenges, responsibility for the subsidiary governance processes across their
and makes recommendations to the Board in respect of any regions and provide a holistic view of the governance framework
adjustments to the Board’s composition. and challenges faced across the Group’s footprint. This was further
reinforced with the return of the Global Subsidiary Conference in
The Committee also: keeps under review the leadership needs of,
Dubai in November, attended by members of the Board and
and succession plans for, the Group in relation to both executive
Management Team and the Chairs and selected INEDs from across
directors and other senior executives; has oversight of the
the Group’s diverse footprint. This conference provided an important
process by which the Board, its committees and individual
opportunity for creating and maintaining appropriate linkages with
directors assess their effectiveness; keeps the diversity of the
the Group’s subsidiaries, as well as sharing best practice.
Board under review and monitors progress towards achieving
its objectives in this area; considers any potential situational The Committee also paid significant attention to enhancing the
conflicts of interest declared by Board members; considers the effectiveness of the Board and its committees. An externally
impact of material changes to corporate governance regulation facilitated Board effectiveness review was commissioned in the
and legislation affecting the Group; and has oversight of the autumn which concluded that the Board continues to operate
Group’s approach to subsidiary corporate governance. effectively while also signalling several areas for improvement,
details of which can be found on page 156.
The Committee reports to the Board on its key areas of focus
following each Committee meeting.
The Committee has written Terms of Reference that
can be viewed at sc.com/termsofreference
Dr José Viñals
Chair of the Governance and Nomination Committee
Directors’ report Corporate governance
Board composition as at 31 December 2022
Gender diversity
Board Executive Number of senior of positions
(CEO, CFO, SID
and Chair)
Female Female Female
6 0 1
43 0 25
% % %
Male (2021: 31%) Male (2021: 0%) Male (2021: 25%)
8 2 3
Experience
International Representation Banking, risk, finance and INED tenure (including Chair)
experience from key markets accounting experience
among INEDs and Chair 0–1 year 3 25%
1–3 years 2 17%
93 36 83
% % % 3–6 year 3 25%
6–9 years 3 25%
9+ years 1 8%
Nationality Ethnicity 3 1 1. W hite
The nationality of our directors does Our aspiration is for our Board to reflect 11 directors
not in itself demonstrate the diversity the diversity of our footprint. Our 2 2. Chinese
of the Board’s composition. Between global ethnicity categories represent 2 directors Further details
them, the directors have significant the breadth of diversity across our on the work of
3. South Asian
experience of either living, working markets. Twenty-one per cent of the the Governance
1 director
or managing operations across the Board were from an ethnic minority and Nomination
markets in which we operate. background as at the end of the year. Committee can
be found below
Activities during the year
Board and senior • Engaged Russell Reynolds, a signatory to the voluntary code of conduct for executive search firms who
talent succession also supplies senior resourcing to the Group, to review the market for future INED candidates with
deep global banking and financial services experience, strong understanding of the remuneration
planning
environment, significant commercial experience and with representation from our key markets.
• Discussed the composition of the Board and considered the orderly succession of current INEDs and the
skills, knowledge, experience, diversity (in the widest sense) and attributes required of future INEDs, both
immediately and in the medium to longer term. In considering the Board’s succession, the Committee
takes into account the length of tenure of the INEDs, and the importance of regularly refreshing the
Board membership.
• Systematically reviewed a number of INED long and short lists throughout the year to identify potential
candidates with a diverse range of skills, experience, knowledge and perspectives. This process resulted
in the Committee recommending to the Board the appointments of Shirish Apte, Robin Lawther, Jackie
Hunt and Linda Yueh.
• Maintained oversight of the progress made by Shirish Apte, against his tailored Board and committee
induction programmes.
• Provided oversight of the detailed executive and senior management (level below Management Team)
succession plans, alongside other critical roles, including the oversight of a process of external market
mapping of key management roles.
• Reviewed succession plans for the committee chair roles, identifying appropriate individuals with the
necessary skills and attributes to provide emergency cover as required, as well as on a longer term basis,
including acknowledging and addressing where gaps exist. Following this process, the Committee
recommended to the Board the appointment of:
– Maria Ramos as Senior Independent Director, Chair of the Board Risk Committee and a member of the
Governance and Nomination Committee
– Shirish Apte as a member and subsequently Chair of the Remuneration Committee and a member of
the Governance and Nomination Committee
– David Conner as a member of the Remuneration Committee
– Robin Lawther as a member of the Remuneration Committee and Culture and Sustainability
Committee
– Jackie Hunt as a member of the Culture and Sustainability Committee and Audit Committee.
180 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 181
Directors’
report
Activities during the year continued
Board and • Considered and recommended the appointment of Ffion Hague of Independent Board Evaluation to
committees’ conduct the 2022 external evaluation of the Board and its committees. Provided oversight of the Board
and committees’ evaluation, and monitored progress against the 2022 Action Plan, which addressed the
effectiveness
key observations from the 2021 effectiveness review.
review
• Discussed the observations and recommendations which flowed from the 2022 externally facilitated
Board and committees’ review and discussed the shape of the Board’s 2023 Action Plan.
Details of this year’s Board and committees’ external evaluation, including the process which we
followed, observations from the review and the resulting 2023 Action Plan can be found on page 156
Board Diversity • Reviewed progress made in 2022 against the agreed commitments set out in the Board Diversity Policy.
Policy • Conducted a review of the Board Diversity Policy to ensure that it continued to drive diversity in its
broadest sense, while continuing to take account of best practice, specifically in the area of gender,
social and ethnic backgrounds, knowledge, personal attributes, skills and experience.
• Discussed the Board’s commitment to ensuring female representation on the Board and increased its
target from a minimum of 33 per cent to at least 40 per cent female in order to align with the changes to
the UK Listing Rules in this area.
• Reviewed the outcome of the FCA consultation on changes to the UK Listing Rules and Disclosure
Guidance and Transparency Rules (DTRs) in relation to diversity and inclusion on company boards
and considered the Company’s current and projected compliance against the new targets.
Further details of progress the Board has made against the key objectives set out in the
Board Diversity Policy are set out on page 182
Independent • Recommended to the Board the extension, for a further 12 months, of Sir Iain Lobban’s appointment as
advisers independent adviser to the Board and its committees on cyber security and cyber threats.
• Recommended to the Board the extension, for a further 12 months, of Paul Khoo’s appointment as
independent adviser to the Board and its Committees on Financial Crime.
Conflicts of • Conducted an annual review of the directors’ existing and previously authorised potential and actual
interest situational conflicts of interest and considered whether any circumstances would necessitate the
authorisation being revoked or amended. Also noted directors’ other directorships and business
interests taken during the year in the context of time commitment, overboarding and the PRA limits
on directorships as well as other regulatory requirements in this area.
Assessment of the • Conducted a robust assessment of Christine Hodgson’s independence ahead of taking the decision
non-executive that she remain on the Board for a short period beyond her nine-year tenure, to enable her to lead the
shareholder consultation required in the wake of a significant minority vote against the remuneration
directors’
policy in 2022, and to facilitate an orderly transition to Shirish Apte as the incoming Remuneration
independence Committee Chair.
• Considered the independence of each of the non-executive directors, taking into account any
circumstances likely to impair, or which could impair, their independence. Noted the thorough process
undertaken to assess individual director performance and effectiveness, taking these reviews into
account along with tenure and succession plans in making its recommendation to appoint the INEDs
for a further year.
Subsidiary • Received updates from the three regional CEOs on the Group’s approach to subsidiary governance.
governance • Received assurance of effective oversight and compliance with the Group’s Subsidiary Governance Policy
and discussed material regulatory trends, initiatives, and considerations likely to impact the current or
future governance of the Group’s banking subsidiaries; the key actions arising from banking subsidiary
board effectiveness reviews; and linkages between banking subsidiaries and the Group.
• Approved the appointments of a new Chair and an independent non-executive director of Standard
Chartered (Hong Kong) Limited.
Terms of Reference • Considered the progress made by the Board Financial Crime Risk Committee, discussed the proposed
future oversight of Financial Crime and recommended that its remit was allocated into a combination
of the Audit Committee, Board Risk Committee and the Board’s Terms of Reference.
• Conducted a review of the Committee’s Terms of Reference during the year, taking into account the
responsibilities, obligations and best practice principles it has in the UK and Hong Kong.
Implementation of the Board Diversity Policy We made good progress in improving the balance of female
The Committee conducted its annual review of the Board directors on the Board this year, with female representation
Diversity Policy (the Policy) during 2022, to ensure that it on the Board at 43 per cent, above the new target being
continues to promote and drive diversity in its broadest sense, incorporated into the UK Listing Rules in 2023, of 40 per cent.
while continuing to take account of best practice initiatives. However, this will continue to move around in the short term
We strive to maintain a diverse Board, recognising the as the composition of the Board continues to change.
benefits of having a Board made up of individuals with While acknowledging the importance of gender diversity
a diverse mix of gender, social and ethnic backgrounds, around the board table and ultimately gender parity on the
knowledge, personal attributes, skills and experience. Board, we also recognise the importance of balancing gender
We also aim to reflect the Group’s aspirations in relation to diversity within the broader context of diversity, which is
its employees and its values and to position the Group as a particularly relevant given the diverse markets in which the
global leader in these areas. This diversity provides a range Group operates.
of perspectives which we believe contribute to the effective
Board dynamics.
Directors’ report Corporate governance
Aligned to the Policy’s broad ambition, this year we report on • ensuring that we consider the Group’s aspirations in
the progress made against the seven objectives, including the relation to disability, sexual orientation, gender identity
updated commitments on female representation made at the and gender expression
end of 2022, which the Board remains committed to in order
• only engaging search firms that are signed up to the
to further enhance progress in this area:
Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search firms
• increasing the representation of women on the Board
• reporting annually on the diversity of the executive
with an aim to have a minimum of 40 per cent
pipeline as well as the diversity of the Board, including
female representation
progress being made on reaching the Board’s gender
• adopting an ethnicity aspiration of a minimum of and ethnicity aspirations.
30 per cent from an ethnic minority background
Details of the Board’s diverse composition are set out on pages 138
to 142 of this report, and that of the Management Team can be
• ensuring that our Board diversity better reflects the
found on pages 143 to 145
diverse markets in which we operate
Details of the Group’s wider diversity and inclusion strategy,
• ensuring that the Board is comprised of a good balance including gender balance across the Group and targets for ethnic
representation, can be found on pages 60 to 63 of this report
of skills, experience, knowledge, perspective and varied
backgrounds A copy of the full Board Diversity Policy can be viewed at
sc.com/boarddiversitypolicy and further details on the
Group’s approach to Diversity and Inclusion can be viewed
at sc.com/diversity-and-inclusion
Progress made in 2022 against the key objectives set out in the Board Diversity Policy is set out below.
Board Diversity Policy objectives Progress
Increasing the representation of Increasing gender representation on the Board remains an important focus of the
women on the Board with an aim to Board’s succession planning process, ensuring that female candidates are fairly
represented on long and short lists. A number of changes to the composition of
have a minimum of 33 per cent female
the Board were announced during 2022: the appointment of Shirish Apte, Robin
representation
Lawther, Jackie Hunt and Linda Yueh as well as the retirement of Naguib Kheraj,
Byron Grote, Jasmine Whitbread and Christine Hodgson. The Board continues to
strive to ensure that female representation continues to increase and the Committee
recommended raising the Board’s target for women’s representation to 40 per cent,
in line with the forthcoming changes to the Listing Rules. Compliance against new
targets under the Listing Rules can be seen on page 180.
Adopting an ethnicity aspiration of a Despite changes to the composition of the Board during the year, representation
minimum of 30 per cent from an ethnic from ethnic minority background remained steady at 21 per cent. We remain
committed to our ethnicity aspiration and to ensuring a broad representation.
minority background
Compliance against new targets under the Listing Rules can be seen on page 180.
Ensuring that our Board reflects the What sets Standard Chartered apart is our diversity of people, cultures and
diverse markets in which we operate networks. The Board has representation from across the regions in which we
operate, including the UK, the EU, North America, Asia and Africa. Many of the
INEDs have additional experience of having worked and lived in many of the Group’s
markets. As part of the Committee’s succession planning in 2022, it has considered
a significant number of potential future INED candidates who are representative of
some of our key regions and markets.
Ensuring that the Board is comprised Throughout the year, the Committee has focused on identifying the collective
of a good balance of skills, experience, experience, skills and attributes required both immediately and in the medium to
longer term. The Committee has systematically reviewed candidate long and short
knowledge, perspective and varied
lists to identify potentially suitable INED candidates. Areas of particular focus in
backgrounds
2022 included:
• Corporate institutional and commercial banking
• Technology risks
• Remuneration
• Previous CEO/CFO experience
• ASEAN experience
• Regulatory understanding.
Ensuring that we consider the Group’s We remain committed to all aspects of diversity as we undertake any Board
aspirations in relation to disability, succession process.
sexual orientation, gender identity
and gender expression
Engaging only search firms that are We continue to engage only search firms signed up to the Voluntary Code of
signed up to the Voluntary Code of Conduct. We worked with Russell Reynolds to assist us in identifying and building
a pipeline of high-quality potential INED candidates for a number of assignments.
Conduct for executive search firms
Russell Reynolds is signed up to the Voluntary Code and is committed in supporting
our ambitions to widen all aspects of diversity on the Board.
Reporting annually on the diversity of the The Committee takes an active role in reviewing the succession planning for the
executive pipeline as well as the diversity executive, Management Team and senior management one level below the
Management Team. We continue to improve our reporting of Board and senior
of the Board, including progress being
talent succession planning as well as reporting on the importance of a diverse
made on reaching the Board’s gender
Board as a means of capturing differing perspectives and enhancing discussion.
and ethnicity aspirations. Progress in enhancing diversity along with the Board’s gender and ethnicity
aspirations will continue to be developed in line with the forthcoming changes
to diversity reporting in the UK Listing Rules.
182 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Directors’ report Directors’ remuneration report
Summary of 2022 remuneration decisions
Directors’
• The current economic environment remains
challenging, with rising inflation across large parts of
remuneration report
our network. In order to support our staff, especially
junior colleagues, we are implementing salary increases
in April 2023, at a global average of 6.6 per cent.
Proportionate
• Salary increases for executive directors and senior
remuneration
management, at 3.4 per cent, are 50 per cent lower
outcomes in the than the average increase for other UK employees.
context of strong • Group performance in 2022 was strong, across financial
Group performance and non-financial metrics, as measured through the
Group balanced scorecard. As such, the approved
aggregate discretionary remuneration for the year is
USD1,589 million, up 16 per cent on 2021.
• Annual incentive awards for executive directors,
Committee composition
Bill Winters (CEO) and Andy Halford (CFO), were
Scheduled meetings assessed at 70 per cent of the maximum for Bill
and at 69 per cent of the maximum for Andy.
Shirish Apte1 (Chair) 2/2
• Reward for all Group employees, including executive
David Conner2 1/1 directors, continues to be aligned to the Group’s
Byron Grote3 5/5 strategic priorities, through the annual and long-term
incentive scorecards.
Christine Hodgson4, CBE 5/5
Robin Lawther, 1/1
CBE5
I am pleased to present our directors’ remuneration report for
Maria Ramos 5/5 the year ended 31 December 2022. I joined the Committee on
Jasmine Whitbread 5/5 1 August 2022 and assumed responsibility as Committee Chair
on 1 January 2023, after receiving all necessary regulatory
1 Shirish joined the Committee on 1 August 2022 and was appointed approvals. I have the honour of taking over as Chair of the
as Committee Chair on 1 January 2023. Remuneration Committee from Christine Hodgson, who has
2 David joined the Committee on 1 October 2022. been the Committee Chair from May 2015 until December
3 Byron stepped down from the Committee on 30 November 2022. 2022. I would like to thank Christine for the significant
4 Christine stepped down as Committee Chair on 31 December 2022 contribution she has made to the Committee as Chair
and from the Committee on 31 January 2023. and for working with me through a very comprehensive
5 Robin joined the Committee on 1 October 2022. handover process.
Who else attended Committee meetings in 2022? The Group has performed well in 2022, despite continuing
The Group Chairman; Group Chief Executive (CEO); Group Chief challenges in the external environment, such as the ongoing
Financial Officer (CFO); Group Chief Risk Officer; Group Head, HR; impact of the pandemic, the Russia-Ukraine conflict and rising
Global Head, Performance, Reward and Benefits; Group General inflation. This report provides an overview of the Committee’s
Counsel; Group Head, Conduct, Financial Crime and Compliance; work during 2022 with respect to remuneration for executive
Group Company Secretary. directors and the wider workforce. The decisions we have
Biographical details of the Committee members can be taken were based upon careful consideration of a broad
viewed on pages 139 to 141 range of factors such as rising inflation in several of our
markets, economic difficulties faced by our colleagues, and
What are the main responsibilities of the Committee?
the need for appropriate and fair reward for our workforce.
The Committee is responsible for setting the governance The directors’ remuneration policy has been operated as
framework for remuneration for all employees, ensuring
intended, to incentivise performance linked to the Group’s
alignment with our culture, the requirements of the UK Corporate
strategy and to be aligned with shareholder interests.
Governance Code and any other relevant regulations. Key
responsibilities of the Committee include:
Response to 2022 AGM remuneration votes
• Oversight of our Fair Pay Charter including the development
and implementation of remuneration policies and practices 2022 directors’ remuneration policy
that are consistent with sound and effective risk management
The Committee engaged with shareholders during 2021 and
to support the Group’s strategic priorities and enable
long-term sustainable success. early 2022 and feedback from this consultation was used
as an input into the development of the 2022 directors’
• Approval of Group discretionary remuneration, including
remuneration policy. At the AGM, the directors’ remuneration
adjustment for risk, control and conduct matters.
policy received the support of 69 per cent of shareholders.
• Determining and agreeing the remuneration framework and
In view of the number of opposing votes, the Committee
policies for the Group Chairman, executive directors and other
continued to engage with shareholders to understand
senior executives, using the Fair Pay Charter principles, taking
into account wider workforce remuneration, and ensuring the their concerns.
alignment of reward with culture and conduct.
The Committee has written terms of reference that can be
viewed at sc.com/termsofreference
184 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 187
Directors’
report
Remuneration at a glance
Group-wide remuneration
Total discretionary remuneration, 2020–2022 ($m) 2022 Group scorecard outcome
1,800 Financials Sustainability
1,589 39/50 5/10
1,600 % %
1,367
1,400
Clients Progress against our Stands
1,200 8/15 +1ppt
990 %
1,000
Enablers Discretionary reduction
800 to formulaic outcome
9/10
% -4ppt1
600
400 Risk and controls
1 Considering all factors, the
9/15
Committee determined that a
200 % reduction of 4 percentage points
(ppt) to the formulaic outcome
0 2020 2021 2022 2022 Group scorecard (71 per cent) was appropriate,
resulting in an outcome of
outcome 67 per cent for the purposes
of discretionary remuneration.
67%
Executive directors’ remuneration
2022 annual incentive (£000) Share ownership as % of salary (at 31 December 2022)
Bill Winters
1,499 2,142
(70% of maximum) Requirement 637%
Andy Halford Actual
945 1,369
(69% of maximum)
250%
2020–22 LTIP outcome (£000)
Bill Winters
1,024 3,213
(22% of maximum)
Andy Halford
634 2,054
(22% of maximum)
Bill Winters
2022 single figure (£000) 441%
Bill Winters
5,483 8,314
(66% of maximum)
200%
Andy Halford
3,412 5,256
(65% of maximum)
2022 outcome Maximum opportunity
Andy Halford
Financial KPIs Non-financial KPIs
Profit before tax Common Equity Tier 1 ratio Diversity and inclusion:
women in senior roles
$4,762 14.0
32.1
m %
%
19bps
15% 1.4ppt
The top of our target range of 13-14%
Return on tangible equity Total shareholder return Sustainability Aspirations
met or on track
8.0 41.4 85.7
% % %
120bps 43.4ppt 2.8ppt
Underlying basis
Directors’ report Directors’ remuneration report
Remuneration alignment
Alignment with our culture
How does our directors’ remuneration policy
Our performance and reward framework supports us in
address other key features set out in the UK
embedding a high-performance culture and aligns with our
principle that colleagues should share in the success of the Corporate Governance Code?
Group. For example:
Proportionality
• All remuneration decisions are grounded in our Fair Pay • In line with our commitment to pay for performance,
Charter, with one consistent set of principles for the wider a significant proportion of executive director pay is
workforce and executive directors (further details on our delivered through incentives based on performance
Fair Charter are on page 193). metrics aligned with our strategy.
• Employee performance is assessed based on what is • Executive directors’ interests are further aligned with
achieved and how it is achieved in line with our valued long-term shareholder interests through the deferred
behaviours. Our remuneration structure and policies release of salary, annual incentive and LTIP awards
ensure that behaviours consistent with these values are over a period ranging from one to eight years. Incentive
appropriately recognised and rewarded. awards are also subject to clawback provisions for up
• To support this approach, the wider workforce and our to 10 years from grant.
executive directors participate in continuous performance • Additional shareholding requirements are in place
management and feedback. for executive directors requiring them to build and
• Our LTIP assessment measures include a conduct gateway maintain a significant shareholding in Company shares
to further support this. while in employment and, for a period of two years
post-employment. Both executive directors currently
Alignment with our strategy exceed their respective shareholding requirements.
Remuneration decisions made across the Group, including for
Predictability
our executive directors, align with our strategic priorities and
• The range of possible rewards to individual
our Stands, including our commitment to sustainable social
executive directors is set out in the scenario charts on
and economic development through:
page 203 where we also demonstrate the impact
• Performance measures in our Group and LTIP scorecards of a 50 per cent share price appreciation over the
are designed to drive achievement of the financial and three-year performance period of the LTIP.
strategic goals that will deliver long-term sustainable value
• Maximum awards levels for all incentives are capped
for our stakeholders.
at 220 per cent of salary and cannot exceed regulatory
• Sustainability and our Stands are key considerations for limits. Other than vesting levels which are driven by
setting and measuring financial and strategic targets. performance outcomes, the only source of variation
in final payouts is that a significant part of incentive
Alignment with our approach to risk and control awards is delivered in shares and is linked to the
The determination of remuneration policy and outcomes share price.
align with the Group’s risk and control framework (see page 211
for further details). In particular: Simplicity and clarity
• Simplicity is a key driver for the structure of our
• The Group and LTIP scorecards include risk and control
executive pay, subject to regulatory requirements
measures.
arising from operating as a UK regulated bank.
• In addition, the Committee considers further discretionary
• Additional information is included on the alignment of
risk adjustment in respect of the Group scorecard outcome
executive and wider workforce pay on pages 188 and
and has a track record of applying discretion appropriately.
189 in the summary of the directors’ remuneration policy
• The rules of the LTIP also give the Committee necessary in support of our commitment to clarity.
discretion to further adjust vesting outcomes if the
Committee considers that the outcome is inconsistent
with underlying business performance.
• Long-term sustainable performance is supported through
the ability to make adjustments to variable remuneration
for risk, control and conduct behaviours, the deferral of
variable remuneration, and the ability to apply malus
and clawback where appropriate.
• The incentives for employees engaged in Audit, Risk
and Compliance functions are set independent of the
businesses they oversee.
190 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 191
Directors’
report
The Remuneration Committee
The Committee is responsible for setting the principles, Advice to the Committee
parameters and governance framework for the Group’s
The Committee was assisted in its considerations by PwC,
remuneration policy and overseeing its implementation.
who were formally re-appointed as the Committee’s
This includes determining the framework and policies for the
remuneration adviser in 2021. It is the Committee’s practice
remuneration of the Group Chairman, the executive directors
to undertake a detailed review of potential advisers every
and other senior management. The Committee also oversees
three or four years.
the alignment of reward, culture, the strategic priorities and
our Stands. PwC is a signatory to the voluntary Code of Conduct in
The Committee has written terms of reference that can relation to remuneration consulting in the UK. PwC also
be viewed at sc.com/termsofreference provides professional services to the Group in the ordinary
course of business, including assurance, advisory, tax advice
Shareholder voting and certain services relating to Human Resources. The
The table below shows the votes cast1 at the AGM in May Committee considered PwC’s role as an adviser to the Group
2022 on remuneration related matters. and determined that there was no conflict or potential conflict
arising. The Committee is satisfied that the advice it receives is
For Against Withheld
objective and independent. The total fee paid to PwC (on an
Advisory vote on the 408,108,378 149,094,072 55,027,858
agreed fee basis) was £104,208, which includes advice to the
2021 remuneration 73.24% 26.76% Committee relating to executive directors’ remuneration and
report
regulatory matters.
Binding vote to 404,531,068 183,344,607 24,340,637
approve the 68.81% 31.19% The Group Chief Financial Officer and Group Chief Risk Officer
2022 directors’ provided the Committee with regular updates on finance and
remuneration policy risk matters. The Committee recognises and manages any
conflicts of interest when receiving views from executive
1 Number of votes is equal to number of shares held
directors or senior management on remuneration proposals
The Remuneration Committee engaged extensively and no individual is involved in deciding their own
with shareholders on the development of the directors’ remuneration.
remuneration policy in 2021 and early 2022. Subsequently,
following the voting outcome at the AGM, the Committee Committee effectiveness review
re-engaged with shareholders as explained on pages 184
The feedback from the externally conducted 2022 Committee
and 185 and in our update statement in September 2022.
effectiveness review was positive. The key points raised and
the action plan for 2023 are summarised below.
Key observations from the 2022 external
effectiveness review 2023 Action Plan
The key points highlighted by the review include:
The 2023 Action Plan for the Committee reflects the
• The Committee is recognised for dealing with difficult recommendations from the effectiveness review and
and sensitive issues, and the work the Committee Chair continues to build on the progress made last year:
does in consulting with investors and attending subsidiary
• Consider how PwC can best provide further insight
RemCo meetings is appreciated.
on how the Group’s more sensitive remuneration
• The close coordination of remuneration and sustainability proposals will be received by investors.
issues, strengthened by cross-membership of the
• Consider how non-Committee members can
Remuneration Committee and Culture and Sustainability
become more informed on the Committee’s debate,
Committee provides helpful alignment.
while protecting confidentiality.
• Positive commentary was given on the support received
from internal specialists (e.g. human resources, finance,
risk) and PwC (the external advisers).
• Non-Committee members feel well informed of the key
issues and areas of discussion.
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 193
Directors’
report
Group-wide remuneration
Our Fair Pay Charter
The Fair Pay Charter is the compass for our performance and reward strategy and outlines how we aim to ensure fairness
in our approach to reward. It sets out the principles that underpin our performance and reward strategy and associated
decisions – including providing a sufficient level of financial security, being competitive against the market, paying for
performance, ensuring consistency and transparency in outcomes, supporting flexibility and wellbeing of colleagues,
and rewarding colleagues in a way that is free from unjust bias.
Together with broader human resources initiatives supporting diversity and inclusion, organisational and individual
development and the recognition of high performance, we are building a culture of excellence where, through innovation
and continuous improvement, each and every one of our colleagues can fulfil their potential.
Full details of the Charter can be found in our Fair Pay Report here: sc.com/fairpayreport
Key highlights include: Fair Pay Charter principles
1 We commit to pay a living wage in all our markets
Financial security during the cost of living crisis and seek to go beyond compliance with minimum
wage requirements.
During 2022, supporting colleagues’ financial security in the
face of widespread cost of living challenges has been a 2 We provide an appropriate mix of fixed and variable
priority. We have taken a number of actions to support this, pay and a core level of benefits to ensure a minimum
level of earnings and security to colleagues and to
including intervening in markets faced by the most extreme
reflect the Group’s commitment to wellbeing.
economic circumstances, such as Sri Lanka, Pakistan and
Zimbabwe, to address the challenges facing our more 3 We support colleagues in working flexibly, in ways
that balance both business needs and their personal
junior employees in particular. We have also set aside
circumstances, and provide colleagues with the
additional funding for 2023 salary increases, again
opportunity to select the combination and level of
prioritising junior colleagues.
benefits that is right for them.
4 Pay is well administered with colleagues paid
Redefining our approach to manage and
accurately, on time and in a way that is convenient
reward performance
for them.
In 2022, we launched a new approach to motivate
5 We provide a competitive total fixed and variable
outperformance and deliver a culture of excellence by pay opportunity that enables us to attract, motivate
redefining how we manage, recognise and reward and retain colleagues based on market rates for their
performance across the Group. With this approach we are role, location, performance, skills and experience.
creating a more transparent, real-time feedback culture 6 The structure of pay and benefits is consistent for
underpinned by continuous feedback, coaching, and open colleagues based on their location and role, with a
two-way performance and development conversations with clear rationale for exceptions.
people leaders.
7 We are committed to rewarding colleagues in a way
that is free from discrimination on the basis of
We also introduced our Leadership Agreement, designed to
diversity, as set out in our Group Code of Conduct.
set clear expectations of the leadership standards needed
to drive and accelerate our performance, focused around 8 We ensure pay decisions reflect the performance
behaviours that aspire, inspire and drive execution. of the individual, the business they work in and
the Group, and recognise the potential, conduct,
behaviours and values demonstrated by each
Diversity and pay
individual.
Since 2017, we have published gender pay gap analysis for
9 We set clear expectations for how colleagues are
the UK, Hong Kong, Singapore, UAE and the US. In 2022, for
rewarded and the principles guiding decisions,
the first time, we have extended our diversity pay analysis to including clear personal objectives and feedback.
include ethnicity pay gap reporting in the UK and US. These
10 We provide clear communication of pay and
analytics, which are included in our Fair Pay Report, combined
performance decisions, and seek feedback and input
with local insights on the unique dynamics and talent from colleagues on our pay structures and outcomes.
context of each market, enable us to better understand the
strengths and gaps in the organisation, and to develop
action plans to tap into the potential of a truly diverse and
inclusive workforce.
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 195
Directors’
report
Assessment of the 2022 scorecard – strategic measures1,2
Clients (network, affluent, mass)
Target Assessment
• Improve client satisfaction rating. • Client satisfaction outperformed across all businesses.
• Deliver growth in qualified clients across Affluent, Private • Affluent and Wealth Management adversely impacted by the
Banking, and Wealth Management activity across top pandemic restrictions, the onset of the Russia-Ukraine conflict
11 affluent countries and increase the number of active and increases in interest rates to tackle inflation.
personal clients. • Network income growth exceeded targets.
• Deliver network income growth in Corporate, Commercial & • Digital Ventures impacted by market volatility and delays in
Institutional Banking. external approvals.
• Grow value of Digital Ventures.
Weighting 12% Outcome 7%
Sustainability
Target Assessment
• Progress against the Group’s aim to achieve net zero by 2050. • Net zero targets progressing well with delivery of green and
• Improve community engagement through employee transition finance on track.
volunteering participation. • Outperformance of community engagement from all markets
including regional campaigns.
Weighting 8% Outcome 4%
Enablers (innovation, new ways of working and people)
Target Assessment
• Grow proportion of digitally initiated transactions and digital • Digital adoption below target impacted by external approvals
sales adoption. and go live delays.
• Improve end-to-end speed to deliver change (from idea • Speed to deliver targets achieved.
formation to commercialisation). • Improved employee inclusion and engagement outcomes and
• Develop human capital by improving employee engagement, an increase in number of females in senior roles by 1.4ppt.
diversity and inclusion.
Weighting 8% Outcome 7%
Risk and controls
Target Assessment
• Improve risk and control governance effectiveness. • Non-financial risk index improved in 2022, reflecting a
• Successfully deliver milestones within the cyber risk reduction in non-financial risk existing in the Bank.
management plan. • Progress made in reducing risk across key information
and cyber security domains.
Weighting 12% Outcome 7%
1 A maximum/minimum performance threshold was set for each performance measure. For strategic measures, the Committee used its judgement to determine
scorecard outcomes within this range (with a higher than 50 per cent outcome for performance above target and a lower than 50 per cent outcome for below
target performance).
2 The Committee considered the performance against the ESG metrics within the people and purpose element of the annual incentive scorecard and 2020–22 LTIP
strategic measures, as well as the Group’s wider progress on ESG metrics, and determined that the outcomes were appropriate and that the incentive structures
do not raise ESG risks by motivating irresponsible behaviour.
Assessment of the 2022 scorecard – our Stands
Our Stands: Accelerating Zero; Lifting Participation; Resetting Globalisation
A holistic assessment of the embedding of our Stands showed good progress has been made across the Group.
See page 24 for further details and examples of the initiatives and programmes that have been implemented. 1%
Assessment of the 2022 scorecard – personal performance
The Committee considers areas of responsibility together with progress against key objectives for the year and personal
contribution to the Group scorecard outcome. This element focuses on measures that reflect real personal impact, such as
transformation of processes and improving the culture within the Bank. Key achievements against Bill’s and Andy’s personal
objectives are summarised in the table below.
Bill Winters
Bill has continued to deliver as an authentic and trusted leader. The strong financial and strategic performance delivered by the
Bank in 2022, our best performance over the past five years despite challenging circumstances, has been significantly influenced
by Bill’s personal drive and contribution throughout the year.
Goal Assessment
Execution and • Bill has taken action throughout the year to simplify and champion new, collaborative ways of working and to
prioritisation drive ambition and execution.
• Champion new ways • His personal focus results in success for the Group with proven examples including performance in China, UAE,
of working across the India and Korea.
Group to maximise • He also led the strategic effort to realign the bank’s Africa and Middle East footprint by exiting some markets
productivity gains and entering or increasing our presence in high potential markets, such as Saudi Arabia and Egypt.
• He has overseen and influenced many enhancements in our internal capabilities which are contributing to
improved performance.
• For example, Bill set up a Global Strategy Delivery Squad, comprised of senior and experienced leaders from
across the organisation, to accelerate progress against our strategic objectives and find solutions to embed
other enterprise-wide strategic enablers.
Directors’ report Directors’ remuneration report
Culture and • Bill drives our culture, promoting the core values of the bank, including diversity and inclusion, sustainability and
transformation our Stands.
• Simplify processes and • He was instrumental in the development of our new performance management process, driving our ambition
instil a high-performance for a truly high-performance environment.
culture. • Bill has been a key advocate of our drive towards a culture of excellence, leading by example and maintaining a
• Increase diversity and focus on risk and control issues, ensuring risk ownership across the business.
inclusion profile and • Our Group Management Team is more than 50% female with Mary Huen joining in 2022 and Sadia Ricke
promote action, both joining as Chief Risk Officer in 2023.
internally and externally. • Through our employee survey, we have seen our Manager Net Promotor Score (mNPS) at its highest ever; there
has also been an increase in the employee Net Promoter Score (eNPS) and scores related to the Bank exceeding
employees’ expectations.
Innovation • Bill has driven innovation in new and core businesses, both in our new ventures and in the success of our
• Drive innovation in new digital assets.
and core businesses. • 30+ ventures in the portfolio across 10+ markets, 7 of which were commercialised in 2022. Examples include the
successful launch of Nexus (Indonesia), Solv (Kenya) and Trust Bank (Singapore).
• Digital capabilities have been launched in CPBB to support wealth education.
• During 2022, both Zodia Custody and Zodia Markets commenced business as a key step in providing
institutional client support for digital assets.
Key stakeholder • Bill has successfully increased his level of engagement with key clients, investors and other stakeholders
interaction throughout the year. Investors are very supportive of him as evidenced by a recent investor perception survey.
• Spend more time with • Bill holds roles in various important external fora which enhances the Bank’s international image and
clients and investors to reputation, positioning us as a thought leader and relevant actor in sustainable finance, innovation and digital
increase impact assets, in particular.
• Fulfil external roles to • He currently co-chairs the B20 India Taskforce on Financing for Global Economic Recovery and is UK Chair of the
improve credentials on India-UK Financial Partnership.
global issues.
Sustainability • Bill takes a leadership position in various banking and markets efforts to address the climate challenge.
• Promote our • He has maintained a high-profile focus on sustainability generally and on carbon markets in particular.
sustainability credentials. Partnerships include Advanced Market Commitment for the African Carbon Markets Initiative (ACMI), acting
as a principal in the Glasgow Financial Alliance for Net Zero (GFANZ) and involvement in the Indonesian and
Vietnamese Just Energy Transition Partnerships (JETPs).
• Bill created the Group’s Chief Sustainability Officer role and played a key role in hiring Marisa Drew for the
position, and in refreshing our sustainability strategy.
Weighting 10% Outcome 9%
Andy Halford
During 2022, Andy has continued to be a strong partner to Bill, the Management Team and the Board. The strong financial
results delivered by the Bank in 2022, despite challenging conditions, have been significantly influenced by Andy’s focus and
commitment to improve the bank.
Goal Assessment
Transformation and • Andy led on the implementation of the strategic actions we set out publicly in February 2022.
execution • Significant progress made within our strategy function resulting in an enhanced focus on strategy across the
• Deliver major Group.
programmes. • He was instrumental in the assessment that resulted in the decision to streamline the bank’s African presence.
• Andy has personally driven the implementation of a multi-year programme to fundamentally upgrade the
quality of the financial systems being used across the Group.
Stakeholder management • Andy played a key role in sharpening the externally communicated goals and the progress of the Bank both
• Increase investor with the investor community and the external media, building trust and confidence externally.
confidence in the Group’s • He has been an active board member contributing on multiple fronts both within and outside his core areas
refreshed strategy. of finance expertise, including process improvements and efficiencies and governance and financial control
improvements for new businesses in and around SC Ventures.
Risk and controls • Andy has given considerable attention to upgrading the quality of the Group’s regulatory reporting, with
• Delivery of regulatory notable improvements in the overall financial control environment.
reporting remediation • He has coordinated a significant multidisciplinary team to ensure that the Group is compliant with its
programme. Resolution responsibilities.
• Deliver the Resolvability • Andy created a new team to manage the verification and reporting of many of the new ESG metrics.
Assessment Framework.
Financial performance • Andy actively managed the Group’s cost base throughout the year, which enabled the rate of income growth
• Contribute to delivery to exceed the rate of cost growth by the largest margin in recent years.
of Group financial • Through his chairing of the Group Asset and Liability Committee during an unparalleled period of economic
performance, including volatility, Andy ensured that the bank appropriately managed the resultant risks and realised many of the
through management opportunities.
of cost base.
Weighting 10% Outcome 8%
196 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 197
Directors’
report
Performance outcome for 2020–22 LTIP awards (audited)
The single total figure of remuneration table on page 198 shows that LTIP awards will vest in March 2023 with an estimated
value of GBP1,024,408 and GBP634,488 for Bill and Andy, respectively. These LTIP awards were granted in 2020 with a face
value of 120 per cent of fixed pay, to incentivise the achievement of the Group’s refreshed strategic priorities over the three-year
period 2020 to 2022. The awards are share-based and were subject to the satisfaction of stretching RoTE, TSR and strategic
performance measures over three years. The targets for these measures were set at the beginning of 2020 and have not been
adjusted to reflect the challenges caused by the onset of the pandemic. A conduct gateway requirement must be met before
any awards vest.
The Committee concluded that Bill and Andy exhibited appropriate conduct during the performance period and therefore the
conduct gateway was met.
The threshold RoTE target has not been achieved and the relative TSR threshold target will be measured in March 2023 but is
estimated not to have been achieved. The Committee considered performance against the strategic proof points set out in the
table below and determined that vesting of 22 per cent was appropriate.
The share price used to estimate the value of vesting of the 2020–22 LTIP awards is higher than the share price on the award
date of GBP5.196 and the value attributable to share price growth for Bill and Andy can be seen in the single total figure of
remuneration on the next page.
The Committee considered carefully the vesting of the LTIP awards, taking account of the share price at grant, which was
15 per cent lower than the share price of the awards made in the previous year. The stretching targets set at the beginning of
2020 were not adjusted to reflect the impact of the pandemic, and the share price increase to the end of the performance
period has been broadly consistent with the improvement in underlying performance. Therefore, the Committee considers
the values to be delivered remain appropriate, and are not a windfall.
The awards will vest pro rata over 2023 to 2027 and the shares will be subject to a 12 month retention period post-vesting.
Malus and clawback provisions apply.
Performance for Performance for Vesting
Measure Weighting minimum vesting (25%) maximum vesting (100%) Assessment of achievement outcome
RoTE1 in 2022 with a One-third 8.5% 11.0% RoTE 8% and CET1 14% 0%
CET1 underpin
Relative TSR One-third Median Upper quartile Performance currently estimated 0%
performance against below median. TSR performance will
peer group be measured in March 2023
Strategic measures One-third Improved performance against our 22%
strategic priorities
Total 2020–22 LTIP awards vesting outcome 22%
Strategic measureProof point Assessment
Deliver our Improve client satisfaction rating Client satisfaction metrics across Corporate, Commercial & Institutional Banking
network and and Consumer, Private & Business Banking have met or exceeded targets in each
grow our year of the plan.
affluent Deliver network growth in target Exceeded targets in 2022, with good performance in areas of strategic focus,
business segments following slower progress in 2021 and 2020.
Deliver affluent growth in target Progress made in 2022 but metric impacted by the pandemic restrictions and the
markets onset of the Russia-Ukraine conflict during the performance period.
Transform Successfully deliver key digital Digital ventures adversely impacted in 2022 by market volatility and delays in
and disrupt partnerships, platforms and external approvals. Strong performance in earlier years.
with digital technologies
Improve data analytics to Strong performance across the three year period, with targets achieved in
develop new products and advance of the performance period end.
attract new clients
Purpose and Improve diversity, employee Improved employee inclusion and engagement outcomes in 2022. Increase in the
people engagement and culture of number of females in senior roles by 3.6ppt over the three years.
inclusion
Successfully embed sustainable Significant outperformance in sustainable finance revenues delivering USD500m
and responsible practices in in challenging markets, making material progress towards USD300bn target.
relation to climate, infrastructure, Delivered on 2022 net zero public commitment milestones, fulfilled leading roles in
environment and community key industry initiatives/standards setting and received A- ‘leadership status’ from
engagements CDP, recognising Standard Chartered among very few banks for its climate action.
Risk and Successfully deliver milestones A significant push in 2022 to improve risk and controls following two years of
controls within the risk management plan slower progress. Non-financial risk reduction reflects a strong performance in
2022 against stretching targets and an improvement on previous years.
Enhance compliance control Information and cyber security remedial actions from earlier years were
effectiveness extended in subsequent periods; however, an improvement in 2022 with risk
reduction across key control domains. Audit targets were achieved in all years.
Maintain risk profile within
Group’s risk appetite
1. RoTE was based on profit attributed to ordinary shareholders, adjusted, on a tax-effected basis, for profits or losses of a capital nature, restructuring charges,
amounts consequent to investment transactions driven by strategic intent and infrequent/exceptional transactions that are significant or material in the context
of the Group’s normal business earnings for the period. The CET1 underpin was set at the higher of 13 per cent or the minimum regulatory level as at 31 December
2022 (taking into account any transition rules or material changes in regulatory rules).
Directors’ report Directors’ remuneration report
Performance measures for 2023–25 LTIP awards
Amount vesting
Measure Weighting (as a % of total award) Threshold performance target Maximum performance target
1. RoTE1 in 2025 with a 30% Maximum – 30% 10% 12.5%
CET12 underpin of the Threshold – 7.5%
higher of 13% or the Below threshold – 0%
minimum regulatory
requirement
If RoTE reaches 10 per cent then 7.5 per cent of the award vests. If RoTE reaches 12.5 per cent then 30 per cent of the award vests.
If RoTE is between the threshold and maximum, vesting is calculated on a straight-line basis between these two points.
2. Relative TSR 30% Maximum – 30% Median Upper quartile
against the Threshold – 7.5%
peer group Below threshold – 0%
Relative TSR is measured against a peer group of companies. If the Group’s TSR performance is at least equivalent to the median
ranked company then 7.5 per cent of the award vests. If the Group’s TSR performance is at least equal to the upper quartile ranked
company then 30 per cent of the award vests. Between these points, the Group’s TSR is compared with that of the peer companies
positioned immediately above and below it and straight-line vesting applies.
3. Sustainability 15% Maximum – 15% • Sustainable finance revenues in excess of $1bn by 2025
Minimum – 0% • Delivery of the net zero roadmap
• Contribution to the advancement of the sustainability ecosystem
4. Other strategic 25% Maximum – 25%
measures Minimum – 0%
Our Stands • Uplifting participation: increase access to financial services and lending
to female entrepreneurs and SMEs
• Resetting globalisation: create diversity and inclusion supplier plans;
bank an increased proportion of our clients’ international and domestic
networks of suppliers and buyers
Clients • Improve client satisfaction rating evidenced in surveys and internal
benchmarks
• Deliver growth in affluent wealth client activity
• Deliver network income growth in Corporate, Commercial & Institutional
Banking
• Increase China onshore and offshore profit before tax in line with
externally disclosed targets
• Drive digital ventures growth with meaningful value from digital creations
Enablers • Ways of working: organisational effectiveness - reducing complexity
(Ways of working • People: improve employee net promoter score; increase diversity; increase
and people) our culture of inclusion
Risk and controls • Reduction in non-financial risk, evaluating the elevated residual risks to
allow for effective prioritisation and give credit for risk reduction
• An assessment of the proportion of audit issues identified by the
business/region/function compared to total issues raised, reflecting
drive to improve risk awareness and culture across the Bank
1 Underlying RoTE represents the ratio of the current year’s underlying operating profit attributable to ordinary shareholders to the weighted average ordinary
shareholders’ equity less the average goodwill and intangibles for the reporting period. Underlying RoTE normally excludes regulatory fines and certain other
adjustments but, for remuneration purposes, such adjustments are subject to review by the Committee.
2 The CET1 underpin will be set at the higher of 13 per cent or the minimum regulatory level as of 31 December 2025. In addition, the Committee has the discretion
to take into account at the end of the performance period any changes in regulatory capital and risk-weighted asset requirements that might have been
announced and implemented after the start of the performance period, for example in relation to Basel IV.
Total variable remuneration awarded to directors in respect of 2022 (audited)
Bill Winters Andy Halford
2022 20211 2022 20211
Annual incentive (£000) 1,499 1,189 945 760
Annual incentive as a percentage of salary 62% 50% 61% 50%
LTIP award (value of shares subject to performance conditions) (£000)2 3,213 3,128 2,054 2,000
LTIP award as a percentage of salary 132% 132% 132% 132%
Total variable remuneration (£000) 4,712 4,317 2,999 2,760
Total variable remuneration as a percentage of salary 194% 182% 193% 182%
1. 2021 variable remuneration figures have been recalculated as a percentage of salary, in line with the 2022 Directors’ remuneration policy approach.
2. LTIP awards for the 2022 performance year will be granted to executive directors in March 2023 and are based on 2022 salary.
200 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Directors’ report Directors’ remuneration report
2023 annual incentive scorecard
Our annual incentive scorecard reflects our strategic priorities. The targets are set annually by the Committee and take
into account the Group’s annual financial plan and strategic priorities for the next few years which reflect the evolving
macroeconomic outlook. The Committee will also consider progress demonstrated against our Stands in the determination
of the overall scorecard outcome.
From 2022, to simplify the process, the Committee embedded the assessment of personal performance into the annual
incentive scorecard assessment, accounting for a maximum weighting of 10 per cent. Financial measures continue to make
up 50 per cent of the annual incentive scorecard. Strategic and personal measures are assessed by the Committee using a
quantitative and qualitative framework.
The Committee considers such targets to be commercially sensitive and that it would be detrimental to the interests of the
Group to disclose them before the end of the financial year. As such, targets will be disclosed retrospectively in the 2023 Annual
Report alongside the level of performance achieved.
Step 1: Conduct gateway requirement to be met in order to be eligible for any annual incentive
Appropriate level of individual valued behaviours and conduct exhibited during the course of the year
Step 2: Measurement of performance against financial and other strategic and personal measures
Financial measures Weighting Target
Income1 10%
Costs 10%
RoTE2 with a CET13 underpin 30% • Targets to be disclosed retrospectively
of the higher of 13% or the
minimum regulatory
requirement
Other strategic measures Weighting Target
Clients (network, affluent, mass, 12% • Improve client satisfaction and client experience ratings.
ventures) • Deliver growth in qualified clients across Affluent, Private Banking, and Wealth
Management activity.
• Deliver network income growth in Corporate, Commercial & Institutional Banking.
• Grow value of Digital Ventures.
• Mass market Retail growth through new to bank personal customers.
Sustainability 8% • Progress against the Group’s sustainable finance revenue targets and its aim to
achieve net zero by 2050.
• Improve community engagement through employee volunteering participation.
Enablers (ways of working and 8% • Grow proportion of digitally initiated transactions and digital sales adoption.
people) • Improve end-to-end speed to deliver change (from idea formation to
commercialisation).
• Improve organisational effectiveness.
• Improve employee engagement, diversity and inclusion.
Risk and controls 12% • Non-financial risk reduction.
• Self-identification of audit issues.
Personal performance measures Weighting Target
Bill - performance goals 10% • Continue personal push for innovation and simplification across the Group, and grow
other sources of income in our footprint.
• Further improve the Group’s risk and control framework, accelerating progress and
embedding a robust preventative risk culture.
• Continue drive for a high-performance culture, including the development of internal
talent and effective succession planning.
Andy - performance goals • Drive collaboration within the Finance function across segments and markets.
• Continue to improve financial reporting procedures.
• Deliver the focus on achieving target RoTE and other strategic objectives.
1 The Group’s statutory performance is adjusted for profits or losses of a capital nature, amounts consequent to investment transactions driven by strategic intent,
other infrequent and/or exceptional transactions that are significant or material in the context of the Group’s normal business earnings for the period and items
which management and investors would ordinarily identify separately when assessing underlying performance period by period.
2 Underlying RoTE represents the ratio of the current year’s underlying operating profit attributable to ordinary shareholders to the weighted average ordinary
shareholders’ equity less the average goodwill and intangibles for the reporting period. Underlying RoTE normally excludes regulatory fines and certain other
adjustments but, for remuneration purposes, such adjustments are subject to review by the Committee.
3 The CET1 underpin will be set at the higher of 13 per cent or the minimum regulatory level as at 31 December 2023. In addition, the Committee has the discretion
to take into account at the end of the performance period any changes in regulatory capital and risk-weighted asset requirements that might have been
announced and implemented after the start of the performance period.
204 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Directors’ report Additional remuneration disclosures
1. For the 2022-24 LTIP awards granted to Bill Winters and Andy Halford on 14 March 2022, the values granted were: Bill Winters: £3.1 million; Andy Halford
£2.0 million. The number of shares awarded in respect of the LTIP took into account the lack of dividend equivalents (calculated by reference to market consensus
dividend yield) such that the overall value of the award was maintained. Performance measures apply to 2022-24 LTIP awards. The closing price on the day before
grant was £4.876.
2. Dividend equivalent shares may be awarded on vesting for awards granted prior to 1 January 2018. On 31 March 2020, Standard Chartered announced that
in response to the request from the PRA and as a consequence of the unprecedented challenges facing the world due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Board
decided to withdraw the recommendation to pay a final dividend for 2019. Dividend equivalent shares allocated to the 2016-18 LTIP and 2017-19 awards vesting
in 2022 did not include any shares relating to the cancelled dividend.
3. Shares (before tax) were delivered to Bill Winters and Andy Halford from the vesting element of LTIP awards. The number of shares and the closing share price on
the day before the shares were delivered were as follows:
2016-18 LTIP: 6 May 2022, 36,023 shares delivered to Bill Winters and 21,510 shares delivered to Andy Halford. Previous day closing share price: £5.65.
2017-19 LTIP: 14 March 2022, 48,428 shares delivered to Bill Winters and 29,982 shares delivered to Andy Halford. Previous day closing share price: £4.876.
2018-20 LTIP: 10 March 2022, 28,178 shares delivered to Bill Winters and 17448 shares delivered to Andy Halford. Previous day closing share price: £4.931.
2019-21 LTIP: 21 March 2022, 30,604 shares delivered to Bill Winters and 19,571 shares delivered to Andy Halford. Previous day closing share price: £5.064.
4. Andy Halford chose to participant in the 2022 Sharesave. This unvested option was granted on 28 November 2022 under the 2013 Plan – to exercise this option,
Andy has to pay an exercise price of £4.23 per share, which has been discounted by 20 per cent. On 29 December 2022, Andy Halford exercised his 2019 Sharesave
option under the 2013 Plan at an exercise price of £4.98 per share. The closing share price on the day before exercise was £6.292.
5. The unvested LTIP awards held by Bill Winters and Andy Halford are conditional rights. They do not have to pay towards these awards. Under these awards,
shares are delivered on vesting or as soon as practicable thereafter.
6. The vesting date relates to the end of the savings contract and the start of the six month exercise window.
As at 31 December 2022, none of the directors had registered an interest or short position in the shares, underlying shares or
debentures of the Company or any of its associated corporations that was required to be recorded pursuant to section 352 of
the Securities and Futures Ordinance, or as otherwise notified to the Company and The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited
pursuant to the Model Code for Securities Transactions by Directors of Listed Issuers.
Historical LTIP awards
The current position on projected vesting for unvested LTIP awards from the 2020 and 2021 performance years based on current
performance and share price as of 31 December 2022 is set out in the tables below. The TSR peer group for both awards is as set
out on page 199.
Current position on the 2021–23 LTIP award: projected partial vesting
Performance for Performance for 2021–23 LTIP assessment as of
Measure Weighting minimum vesting (25%) maximum vesting (100%) 31 December 2022
RoTE in 2023 plus CET1 underpin 30% 6.0% 10.0% RoTE between threshold and
of the higher of 13% or the maximum therefore indicative partial
minimum regulatory vesting
requirement
Relative TSR performance 30% Median Upper quartile TSR positioned between median and
against the peer group upper quartile therefore indicative
partial vesting
Sustainability 15% Targets set for sustainability measures linked Tracking above target performance
to the business strategy therefore indicative partial vesting
Strategic measures 25% Targets set for strategic measures linked to Tracking above target performance
the business strategy therefore indicative partial vesting
Current position on the 2022–24 LTIP award: projected partial vesting
Performance for Performance for 2022–24 LTIP assessment as of
Measure Weighting minimum vesting (25%) maximum vesting (100%) 31 December 2022
RoTE in 2024 plus CET1 underpin 30% 7.0% 11.0% RoTE between threshold and
of the higher of 13% or the maximum therefore indicative partial
minimum regulatory vesting
requirement
Relative TSR performance 30% Median Upper quartile TSR positioned above upper quartile
against the peer group therefore indicative full vesting
Sustainability 15% Targets set for sustainability measures linked Tracking above target performance
to the business strategy therefore indicative partial vesting
Strategic measures 25% Targets set for strategic measures linked to Tracking above target performance
the business strategy therefore indicative partial vesting
The Committee assesses the value of LTIP awards on vesting and has the flexibility to adjust if the formulaic outcome is not
considered to be an appropriate reflection of the performance achieved and to avoid windfall gains.
210 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Directors’ report Other disclosures
Other disclosures
The Directors’ report for the year ended 31 December 2022 Principal activities
comprises 134 to 231 of this report (together with the sections We are a leading international banking group, with over
of the Annual Report incorporated by reference). The 160 years of history in some of the world’s most dynamic
Company has chosen, in accordance with section 414C(11) markets. Our purpose is to drive commerce and prosperity
of the Companies Act 2006, and as noted in this Directors’ through our unique diversity. The Group’s roots in trade
report, to include certain matters in its Strategic report that finance and commercial banking have been at the core of its
would otherwise be disclosed in this Directors’ report. Both the success throughout its history, but the Group is now more
Strategic report and the Directors’ report have been drawn up broadly based across Consumer, Private and Business Banking
and presented in accordance with English company law, and and Ventures in its footprint markets in Asia, Africa and the
the liabilities of the directors in connection with that report Middle East. The Group operates in the UK and overseas
shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by through a number of subsidiaries, branches and offices.
such law. Other information to be disclosed in the Directors’
Further details on our business, including key performance indicators,
report is given in this section. In addition to the requirements
can be found within the Strategic report on pages 1 to 133.
set out in the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules
relating to the Annual Report, information required by UK
Fair, balanced and understandable
Listing Rule 9.8.4 to be included in the Annual Report, where
On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee has reviewed
applicable, is set out in the table below and cross-referenced.
the Annual Report and the process by which the Group
believes that the Annual Report, is fair, balanced and
Information to be included in the Annual Report
understandable and provides the information necessary
(UK Listing Rules 9.8.4)
for shareholders to assess the position and performance,
Relevant Listing Rule Pages strategy and business model of the Group. Following its
LR 9.8.4 (1) (2) (5-14) (A) (B) N/A review, the Audit Committee has advised the Board that
such a statement can be made in the Annual Report.
LR 9.8.4 (4) 197, 199 and 200
UK Corporate Governance Code compliance
The table below contains examples of where the Company has applied the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code
in this Annual Report.
A copy of the UK Corporate Governance Code can be found at frc.org.uk
Principles Pages/reference
Board leadership A – Promoting long-term sustainable success and value 2 to 133, 136 to 230
and company
B – Purpose, value, strategy and alignment with culture 2 to 133, 136 to 230
purpose
C – Performance measures, controls and risk management 136, 147 to 150 and 163 to 175
D – Shareholder and other stakeholder engagement 54 to 124, 136, 149 and 158 to 162
E – Workforce policies and practices 60 to 124, 168 and 177
Division of F – Chair role and responsibilities 138, 150 and 152
responsibilities G – Board roles and responsibilities 138 to 142, 150, 152, 157, 179 to 183
H – Non-executive directors role and capacity 150, 152, 157 and 181
I – Board effectiveness and efficiency 156
Composition, J – Board appointments and succession plans 179 to 183
succession K – Board skills, experience, knowledge and tenure 138 to 142, 179 to 183
and evaluation
L – Board evaluation of composition, diversity and effectiveness 154, 156, 169, 175, 178, 183, 191
Audit, risk and M – Independence and effectiveness of internal and external audit functions,
internal control integrity of financial and narrative statements 163 to 169
N – Fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Company’s position
and prospects 218
O – Risk management and internal controls 147, 163 to 175
Remuneration P – Remuneration policies and practices 184 to 217
Q – Procedure for developing remuneration policy Remuneration Committee
Terms of Reference
R – Independent judgement and discretion when authorising Remuneration Committee
remuneration outcomes Terms of Reference
The Remuneration Committee has written Terms of Reference that can be viewed at sc.com/termsofreference
218 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 221
Directors’
report
As at 10 February 2023, the Company has been notified of the However, notification of any change is not required until the
following information, in accordance with DTR 5, from holders next notifiable threshold is crossed.
of notifiable interests in the Company’s issued share capital.
Ahead of joining the Group in May 2022, Shirish Apte stepped
The information provided in the table below was correct at
down as an independent non-executive director of Pierfront
the date of notification; however, the date received may not
Capital Mezzanine Fund, a 90 per cent owned subsidiary of
have been within 2022. It should be noted that these holdings
Temasek.
are likely to have changed since the Company was notified.
Interest in
ordinary shares
(based on voting Percentage of
Notifiable interests rights disclosed) capital disclosed Nature of holding as per disclosure
Temasek Holdings (Private) Limited 474,751,383 16.00 Indirect
BlackRock Inc. 183,640,172 5.55 Indirect (5.01%)
Securities Lending (0.39%)
Contracts for Difference (0.14%)
Dodge & Cox 150,620,884 5.08 Indirect
Related party transactions The main reasons for seeking the Waiver were:
Details of transactions with directors and officers and other • The nature and terms of revenue banking transactions
related parties are set out in Note 36 to the financial may vary and evolve over time; having fixed-term written
statements. agreements would not be suitable to accommodate
the various banking needs of the Company’s customers
Connected/continuing connected transactions (including Temasek) and would be impractical and unduly
By virtue of its shareholding of over 10 per cent in the burdensome.
Company, Temasek and its associates are related parties
• It would be impracticable to estimate and determine an
and connected persons of the Company for the purposes of
annual cap on the revenue banking transactions with
the UK Listing Rules and the Rules Governing the Listing of
Temasek as the volume and aggregate value of each
Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited
transaction are uncertain and unknown to the Company as
(“HKEx”) (“the HK Listing Rules”) respectively (together
a banking group due to multiple factors including market
“the Rules”).
driven factors.
The Rules are intended to ensure that there is no favourable
• The revenues generated from revenue banking transactions
treatment to Temasek or its associates to the detriment of
were insignificant. Without a waiver from the HKEx or an
other shareholders in the Company. Unless transactions
applicable exemption, these transactions would be subject
between the Group and Temasek or its associates are
to various percentage ratio tests which cater for different
specifically exempt under the Rules or are subject to a specific
types of connected transactions and as such may produce
waiver, they may require a combination of announcements,
anomalous results.
reporting and independent shareholders’ approval.
For the year ended 31 December 2022, the Group provided
On 12 November 2021, the HKEx extended a waiver (the
Temasek with money market and foreign exchange revenue
“Waiver”), it previously granted to the Company for the
transactions that were revenue transactions in nature.
revenue banking transactions with Temasek which do not fall
under the passive investor exemption (“the Passive Investor As a result of the Passive Investor Exemption and the Waiver,
Exemption”) under Rules 14A.99 and 14A.100 of the HK Listing the vast majority of the Company’s transactions with Temasek
Rules. Under the Waiver, the HKEx agreed to waive the and its associates fall outside of the connected transactions
announcement requirement, the requirement to enter into regime. However, non-revenue transactions with Temasek or
a written agreement and set annual caps, and the annual any of its associates continue to be subject to monitoring for
report disclosure (including annual review) requirements connected transaction issues.
under Chapter 14A of the HK Listing Rules for the three-year
The Company confirms that:
period ending 31 December 2024 on the conditions that:
• The revenue banking transactions entered into with
a) The Company will disclose details of the Waiver (including
Temasek in 2022 were below the 5 per cent threshold for the
nature of the revenue banking transactions with Temasek
revenue ratio test under the HK Listing Rules; and
and reasons for the Waiver) in subsequent annual reports;
and • It will continue to monitor revenue banking transactions
with Temasek during the three years ending 31 December
b) The Company will continue to monitor the revenue banking
2024 to ensure that the 5 per cent threshold for the revenue
transactions with Temasek during the three years ending
ratio will not be exceeded.
31 December 2024 to ensure that the 5 per cent threshold
for the revenue ratio will not be exceeded. The Company therefore satisfied the conditions of the Waiver.
Directors’ report Other disclosures
Non-revenue transaction with Temasek Debenture issues and equity-linked agreements
The following non-revenue transaction between Temasek During the financial year ended 31 December 2022, the
and the Group was entered into and during the year ended Company made no issuance of debentures or equity-linked
31 December 2022 and relevant announcement had been agreements.
made by the Company on 3 November 2022 in accordance
with the HK Listing Rules: Risk management1
On 3 November 2022, the Company’s wholly owned The Board is responsible for maintaining and reviewing the
subsidiary, Standard Chartered Overseas Holdings Limited effectiveness of the risk management system. An ongoing
(“SCOHL”), entered into a share subscription agreement with process for identifying, evaluating and managing the
Partior Pte. Ltd. (“Partior”) (“Share Subscription Agreement”), significant risks that we face is in place. The Board is satisfied
pursuant to which SCOHL agreed to subscribe for 31,923 that this process constitutes a robust assessment of all of the
ordinary shares and 9,036,404 Series A preference shares in principal risks, topical and emerging risks and Integrated risks
Partior (collectively the “Subscription Shares”) at a price of facing the Group, including those that would threaten its
US$2.573 per Subscription Share, and for a total subscription business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
price of US$23,332,806 in order to acquire 25% shareholding 1 The Group’s Risk Management Framework and System of Internal Control
in Partior, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions. applies only to wholly controlled subsidiaries of the Group, and not to
Associates, Joint Ventures or Structured Entities of the Group.
On completion of the Share Subscription Agreement, SCOHL Key areas of risk on financial instruments for the directors
will enter into a shareholders’ agreement (“Shareholders’ included the impairment of loans and advances and
Agreement”) with Partior, Silverheels Investments Pte. Ltd. valuation of financial instruments held at fair value. This risk
(“Silverheels”), DBS Finnovation Pte. Ltd. and JPMC Strategic assessment and management is explained further in the
Investments I Corporation (with the latter two collectively Audit Committee Key areas and Action taken on pages 164
the “Other Transaction Parties”). The Shareholders’ and 165.
Agreement contains terms and shareholder rights customary
The Risk review and Capital review on pages 236 and 325 sets out
for transactions of this nature, including as to board
the principal risks, topical and emerging risks and integrated risks,
representation, voting, transfer restrictions and exit provisions. our approach to risk management, including our risk management
Regarding the Other Transaction Parties, to the best of the principles, an overview of our Enterprise Risk Management Framework
and the risk management and governance practices for each principal
Company’s knowledge, information and belief having made
risk type. The Board-approved Risk Appetite Statement can be found
all reasonable enquiry, save for DBS Finnovation Pte. Ltd. in on pages 301 to 309
which Temasek is an indirect substantial shareholder, JPMC
Strategic Investments I Corporation and its ultimate beneficial In accordance with Article 435(1)(e) of the UK onshored
owner are both independent third parties of the Company Capital Requirements Regulation, and the Disclosure (CRR)
and connected persons of the Company. Immediately before Part of the PRA Rulebook, the Board Risk Committee, on
the signing of the Share Subscription Agreement, Partior’s behalf of the Board, has considered the adequacy of the risk
shares were held by Silverheels and the Other Transaction management arrangements of the Group and has sought
Parties in equal proportion. and received assurance that the risk management systems
in place are adequate with regard to the Group’s profile
The equity investment in Partior builds on the Company’s
and strategy.
desire to shape the Future of Payments by assuring the
Company could provide a payment foundation that is able
Internal control1
to meet its clients’ emerging needs. It allows the Company to
deepen its blockchain innovation capabilities and ramp up The Board is responsible for maintaining and reviewing the
its commitment to building a more transparent, efficient and effectiveness of the internal control system. Its effectiveness
secure infrastructure for global value movement. is reviewed regularly by the Board, its committees, the
Management Team and Group Internal Audit.
As Temasek is a substantial shareholder of the Company as
defined under the HK Listing Rules, Temasek is a connected For the year ended 31 December 2022, the Board Risk
person of the Company. By virtue of Temasek holding more Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s
than 30% of its issued share capital, via Silverheels, Temasek’s system of internal control. As part of this review, affirmation
indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, Partior is also a connected was received from the Interim GCRO (in situ at the time of the
person of the Company. Pursuant to Chapter 14A of the review as the new GCRO awaited regulatory approval) that
HK Listing Rules, SCOHL’s entry into the Share Subscription the Group’s risk management and internal control framework
Agreement between SCOHL and Partior and the is materially effective and improvement areas were
Shareholders’ Agreement between SCOHL, Partior, highlighted for management attention. Group Internal Audit
Silverheels and the Other Transaction Parties constitutes represents the third line of defence and provides independent
a connected transaction for the Company. assurance of the effectiveness of management’s control of
business activities (the first line) and of the control processes
As at 31 December 2022, Standard Chartered Overseas maintained by the Risk Framework Owners and Policy Owners
Holdings Limited had changed its name to Standard (the second line). The audit programme includes obtaining
Chartered Strategic Investments Limited. an understanding of the processes and systems under
audit review, evaluating the design of controls, and testing
Fixed assets the operating effectiveness and outcomes of key controls.
Details of additions to fixed assets are presented in Note 18 The work of Group Internal Audit is focused on the areas
to the financial statements. of greatest risk as determined by a risk-based assessment
methodology. The Board considers the internal control
Loan capital systems of the Company to be effective and adequate.
Details of the loan capital of the Company and its subsidiaries 1 The Group’s Risk Management Framework and System of Internal Control
are set out in Notes 22 and 27 to the financial statements. applies only to wholly controlled subsidiaries of the Group, and not to
Associates, Joint Ventures or Structured Entities of the Group.
222 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 223
Directors’
report
Group Internal Audit reports regularly to the Audit Committee, We continue to listen and act on feedback from colleagues
the Group Chairman and the Group Chief Executive; and the to ensure internal communications are timely, informative,
Group Head, Internal Audit reports directly to the Chair of the meaningful, and in support of the Group’s strategy and
Audit Committee and administratively to the Group Chief transformation. In addition to the Bridge (our primary internal
Executive. The findings of all adverse audits are reported to communications platform) which allows colleagues to receive
the Audit Committee, the Group Chairman and the Group key updates, exchange ideas and provide feedback, we also
Chief Executive where immediate corrective action is required. leverage a range of channels including email, digital
newsletters with customised content for each employee
The Board Risk Committee is responsible for exercising
segment, audio and video calls, virtual and face-to-face
oversight, on behalf of the Board, of the key risks of the Group.
townhalls, and other staff engagement and recognition
It reviews the Group’s Risk Appetite Statement and Enterprise
events. To continue to improve the way we communicate
Risk Management Framework and makes recommendations
and ensure our employee communications remain relevant,
to the Board. The Audit Committee is responsible for oversight
we also periodically analyse and measure the impact of our
and advice to the Board on matters relating to financial
communications through a range of survey and feedback
reporting. The Committee’s role is to review, on behalf of
tools. We are currently assessing our suite of communication
the Board, the Group’s internal controls including internal
channels as we prepare to launch improved solutions and
financial controls.
discontinue those that are less effective.
The risk management approach starting on page 295 describes the
Group’s risk management oversight committee structure. Our senior leaders and people leaders continue to play a
critical role in engaging our teams across the network,
Our business is conducted within a developed control
ensuring that they are kept up to date on key business
framework, underpinned by policy statements and standards.
developments related to our performance and strategy.
There are written policies and standards designed to ensure
We provide additional support to our people leaders with
the identification and management of risk, including Credit
specific calls and communications packs to help them
Risk, Traded Risk, Treasury Risk, Operational and Technology
provide context and guidance to their team members to
Risk, Information and Cyber Security Risk, Compliance
better understand their role in executing and delivering the
Risk, Financial Crime Risk, Model Risk, Climate Risk and
Group’s strategy.
Reputational and Sustainability Risk. The Board has
established a management structure that clearly defines Across the organisation, regular team meetings with people
roles, responsibilities and reporting lines. leaders, one-to-ones and various management meetings
provide an important platform for colleagues to discuss
Delegated authorities are documented and communicated.
and clarify key issues. Regular performance conversations
Executive risk committees regularly review the Group’s risk
provide the opportunity to discuss how individuals, the team
profile. The performance of the Group’s businesses is reported
and the business area have contributed to our overall
regularly to senior management and the Board. Performance
performance and how any compensation awards relate
trends and forecasts, as well as actual performance against
to this. The Group’s senior leadership also regularly share
budgets and prior periods, are monitored closely. Financial
global, business, function, region and market updates on
information is prepared using appropriate accounting
performance, strategy, structural changes, HR programmes,
policies, which are applied consistently.
community involvement and other campaigns.
Operational procedures and controls have been established
The Board engages with and listens to the views of the
to facilitate complete, accurate and timely processing of
workforce through several sources, including through
transactions and the safeguarding of assets. These controls
interactive engagement sessions. More information can
include appropriate segregation of duties, the regular
be found on pages 162 and 177 in the Directors’ report.
reconciliation of accounts and the valuation of assets and
positions. In respect of handling inside information, we have Employees, past, present and future can follow our progress
applied relevant controls on employees who may handle through the Group’s LinkedIn network and Facebook page,
inside information, including controls over the dissemination as well as other social network channels including Instagram,
of such information and their dealings in the Company’s which collectively have over 2.4 million followers.
shares. Such systems are designed to manage rather than
The diverse range of internal and external communication
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and
tools and channels we have put in place ensure that all our
can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance
colleagues receive timely and relevant information to support
against material misstatement or loss.
their effectiveness.
Employee policies and engagement The wellbeing of our employees is central to our thinking
about benefits and support, so that they can thrive at work
We work hard to ensure that our employees are kept informed
and in their personal lives. Our Group minimum standards
about matters affecting or of interest to them, and more
provide employees with a range of flexible working options,
importantly have the opportunities to provide feedback and
in relation to both location and working patterns. In terms
engage in a dialogue.
of leave, employees are provided with at least thirty days’
leave (through annual leave and public holidays), a minimum
of twenty calendar weeks’ fully paid maternity leave, a
minimum of two calendar weeks of leave for spouses or
partners, and two calendar weeks for adoption leave.
Combined, this is above the International Labour
Organisation minimum standards.
Directors’ report Other disclosures
We seek to build productive and enduring partnerships with Our Group Diversity and Inclusion Standard has been
various employee representative bodies (including unions developed to ensure a respectful workplace, with fair and
and work councils). In our recognition and interactions, we equal treatment, diversity and inclusion, and the provision of
are heavily influenced by the 1948 United Nations Universal opportunities for employees to participate fully and reach
Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), and several their full potential in an appropriate working environment.
International Labour Organisation (ILO) conventions including The Group aims to provide equality of opportunity for all,
the Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining Convention, protect the dignity of employees and promote respect at
1949 (No. 98) and the Freedom of Association and Protection work. All individuals are entitled to be treated with dignity
of the Right to Organise Convention, 1948 (No. 87). 14 per cent and respect, and to be free from harassment, bullying,
of employees across 19 markets have collective representation discrimination and victimisation. This helps to support
through unions or employee representative bodies. The productive working conditions, decreased staff attrition,
working conditions and terms of employment of other positive employee morale and engagement, maintains
employees are based on our Group and country policies, and employee wellbeing, and reduces people-related risk. All
in accordance with individual employment contracts issued employees and contractors are required to take personal
by the Group. responsibility to comply with the Standard, including
conducting themselves in a manner that demonstrates
The Group Grievance Standard provides a formal framework
appropriate, non-discriminatory behaviours.
for dealing with concerns that employees have in relation
to their employment or another colleague, which affects The Group is committed to provide equal opportunities and
them directly, and cannot be resolved through informal fair treatment in employment. We do not accept unlawful
mechanisms, such as counselling, coaching or mediation. discrimination in our recruitment or employment practices
This can include concerns related to bullying, harassment, on any grounds including but not limited to: sex, race, colour,
discrimination and victimisation, as well as concerns regarding nationality, ethnicity, national or indigenous origin, disability,
conditions of employment (for example, health and safety, age, marital or civil partner status, pregnancy or maternity,
new working practices or the working environment). sexual orientation, gender identity, expression or
Employees can raise grievances to their People Leader or a reassignment, HIV or AIDS status, parental status, military
Human Resources (HR) Representative. The global process and veterans status, flexibility of working arrangements,
for addressing grievances involves an HR representative religion or belief. We strive for recruitment, appraisals,
and a member of the business reviewing the grievance, pay and conditions, training, development, succession
conducting fact finding into the grievance and providing a planning, promotion, grievance/disciplinary procedures and
written outcome to the aggrieved employee. If a grievance employment termination practices that are inclusive and
is upheld, the next steps might include remedying a policy or accessible; and that do not directly or indirectly discriminate.
process, or initiating a disciplinary review of the conduct of Recruitment, employment, training, development and
the colleague who is the subject of the grievance. The Group promotion decisions are based on the skills, knowledge
Grievance Standard and accompanying process is reviewed and behaviour required to perform the role to the Group’s
on a periodic basis in consultation with stakeholders across standards. Implied in all employment terms is the
HR, Legal, Compliance and Shared Investigative Services. commitment to equal pay for equal work. We will also make
Grievance trends are reviewed on a quarterly basis and reasonable workplace adjustments (including during the
action is taken to address any concerning trends. hiring process) to ensure all individuals feel supported and are
able to participate fully and reach their potential. If employees
There is a distinct Group Speaking Up Policy which covers
become disabled, we will proactively seek to support them
instances where an employee wishes to ‘blow the whistle’
with appropriate training and workplace adjustments where
on actual, planned or potential wrongdoing by another
possible and explore every opportunity to ensure their
employee or the Group.
employment continues.
The Group is committed to creating a fair, consistent, and
transparent approach to making decisions in a disciplinary Health and safety
context. This commitment is codified in our Fair Accountability Our Health, Safety and Wellbeing (HSW) programme covers
Principles, which underpin our Group Disciplinary Standard. both mental and physical health and wellbeing. The Group
Dismissals due to misconduct issues and/or performance complies with both external regulatory requirements and
(where required by law to follow a disciplinary process) are internal policy and standards for HSW in all markets. It is
governed by the Group Disciplinary Standard. Where local Group policy to ensure that the more stringent of the two
law or regulation requires a different process with regards to requirements is always met, ensuring our HSW practices
dismissals and other disciplinary outcomes, we have country meet or exceed the regulatory minimum. Compliance
variances in place. rates are reported at least biannually to each country’s
Management Team.
224 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 225
Directors’
report
We follow the ILO code of practice on recording and Throughout 2022, the COVID-19 pandemic reduced its impact,
notification of occupational accidents and diseases, as well with lockdowns and restrictions easing across most markets
as aligning to UK Health and Safety Executive, and ensuring and staff returning to the office in greater numbers. That said,
we meet all local H&S regulatory reporting requirements. we still encourage flexible and hybrid work arrangements
We record and report all work-related illness and injuries, as part of our Future Work Now programme. A H&S online
including sub-contractors, visitors and clients. assessment tool is available for staff to assess their home
working area for hazards, with a virtual assessments of the
HSW performance and risks are reported annually to the
individual’s work environment. All staff opting to work flexibly
Group Risk Committee and Board Risk Committee. We use a
received an allowance to purchase ergonomic office
health and safety management system across all countries to
equipment. Our work injury insurance covers all staff working
ensure a consistently high level of health and safety reporting
from home.
for all our colleagues and clients.
Health, Safety & Security training is mandatory for all
The Bank sponsors medical and healthcare services for
colleagues’ training, and 2022 saw both our initial and
all employees, except in markets where cover is provided
annual refresher training packages completely updated and
through State-mandated healthcare, which represent less
refreshed, with emphasis on mental health and wellbeing,
than 0.5 per cent of the Group’s employees. All staff also
as well as work from home aspects.
have access to professional counselling via our Employee
Assistance Program, as well as to more proactive mental
Major customers
health support through our holistic wellbeing app and
wellbeing platform. Our five largest customers together accounted for 1.9 per cent
of our total operating income in the year ended 31 December
Furthermore, we consider and treat mental health in the same 2022.
way that we would treat physical health. Our global Mental
Health First Aid (MHFA) programme offers help to someone
Major suppliers
developing a mental health problem, experiencing a
In 2022, $4.3 billion was spent with approximately 11,700
worsening of an existing mental illness or a mental health
suppliers. Of this, 74 per cent of the total spend was spent in
crisis. The mental health support is given until appropriate
the Asia region, with 18 per cent in Europe and the Americas,
professional help is received, or the crisis resolved. To date we
and 8 per cent in Africa and the Middle East.
have trained over 500 mental health first aiders in 48 markets,
covering more than 99 per cent of colleagues. Furthermore, 80 per cent of total spend in 2022 was with
465 suppliers. In addition, 80 per cent of carbon emissions
In 2022, we recorded one work-related fatality where a
were with 652 suppliers. In 2022, our five largest suppliers
contractor was fatally injured when crossing a road in
together accounted for 14 per cent of total spend, with the
Pakistan. Major injuries (per the UK Health & Safety Executive
largest ten amounting to 21 per cent of total spend.
definition) decreased from 24 in 2021 to 21, with fractures the
most common type of major injury (21%).
Supply chain management
Overall, reported injuries increased by 5.1% per cent, with
To support the operation of our businesses we source a variety
‘slips/trips/falls’ and ‘transport/commuting’ remaining the
of goods and services governed through a third-party risk
most common causes of injury. Our injury rates remain aligned
management framework which ensures that we follow the
to, or better than industry benchmarks. Hazards and near miss
highest standards in terms of vendor selection, due diligence,
reports increased 23% per cent between 2021 and 2022, and
and contract management.
all premises are inspected at least annually to identify any
hazards, risks, and incidences of non-compliance. The overall For information about how the Group engages with suppliers
increase in accidents and incidents was due to the large on environmental and social matters, please see our Supplier
increase in staff returning to office locations in 2022 after Charter and Supplier Diversity and Inclusion Standard.
the lockdowns and restrictions of 2021.
As set out under the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015, the Group
One hundred and twenty of our largest premises were is required to publish a Modern Slavery Statement annually.
certified with the WELL Health & Safety Rating; an evidence- The Group’s 2022 Modern Slavery Statement is issued at
based, third-party certification that validates our efforts the same time as the Annual Report. This document gives
to address the hygiene and safety of our workspaces further detail on the actions the Group has taken as it seeks
during COVID-19 and prepare our buildings for re-entry to prevent modern slavery and human trafficking in its
post-pandemic. operations, financing and supply chain during 2022.
Our Supplier Charter and Supplier Diversity and Inclusion standard can
Our regular Workplace Experience survey, conducted across
be viewed at sc.com/suppliercharter and sc.com/supplierdiversity
60 countries, returned our highest ever H&S and security
satisfaction scores. The Health and Wellbeing index increased Details of how we create value for our suppliers and other stakeholder
groups can be found on pages 54 to 63
by 7%, and staff reported improved scores for work-life
balance, wellbeing at home, and overall wellbeing. Staff also
reported that our workplace design better supports their
wellbeing and physical health compared with previous years.
Directors’ report Other disclosures
Product responsibility At a management level, the Chief Sustainability Officer is
We aim to design and offer products based on client needs responsible for Sustainable Finance, which incorporates E&S
to ensure fair treatment and outcomes for clients. risk management. A cross-business Sustainability Forum
is responsible for developing and delivering the Group’s
The Group has in place a risk framework, comprising policies sustainability strategy, and in 2022 this Forum was chaired
and standards, to support these objectives in alignment with by the Group Head, Corporate Affairs, Brand & Marketing
our Conduct Risk Framework. This framework covers sales from January to July, and from August onwards 2022 by the
practices, client communications, appropriateness and Chief Sustainability Officer.
suitability, and post-sales practices. There are controls across
all activities above and the controls are tested on a regular The Group Responsibility and Reputational Risk Committee
basis to provide assurance on the framework. As part of this, (GRRRC), chaired by the Group Head, Conduct, Financial
we ensure products sold are suitable for clients and comply Crime and Compliance, oversees management of the
with relevant laws and regulations. We also review our Reputational and Sustainability Risk profile for the Group,
products on a periodic basis and refine them to keep them including oversight of our Position Statements and associated
relevant to the changing needs of clients and regulators. risk tolerance thresholds.
We have processes and guidelines specific to each of our Community engagement
client industries, to promptly resolve client complaints
We collaborate with local partners to support social and
and understand and respond to client issues. Conduct
economic development in communities across our markets.
considerations are given significant weighting in frontline
We are committed to sustainable social and economic
incentive structures to drive the right behaviours.
development through our business, operations and
For more information on our approach to product design, communities. We aim to create more inclusive economies by
product pricing, treating customers fairly and protecting sharing our skills and expertise and developing community
initiatives that transform lives. We continue to support our
customers, and incentivising our frontline employees, see
communities through Futuremakers by Standard Chartered,
pages 55 and 56. For more information on fraud identification
our global initiative to tackle youth economic inclusion and
see page 121.
enable the next generation to learn, earn and grow. For more
information on Futuremakers, as well as our employee
Safeguarding intellectual property rights
volunteering and community investment expenditure,
The Group has processes in place to manage the Group’s please see pages 122 to 123 in the ‘Sustainability’ section
trade mark rights and it respects third party intellectual and page 492.
property rights.
ESG reporting guide
Group Code of Conduct
The Board has adopted a Group Code of Conduct (the Code) Compliance with Listing Rules
relating to the lawful and ethical conduct of business and this We comply with the requirements for environmental, social
is supported by the Group’s valued behaviours. This has been and governance reporting under Appendix 27 of the Hong
communicated to all directors and employees, all of whom Kong Listing Rules with the exception of A1.3 on hazardous
are expected to observe high standards of integrity and fair waste and A1.6 on production and handling of hazardous
dealing in relation to customers, employees and regulators waste and A2.5 on packaging and B2.2 on lost days due to
in the communities in which the Group operates. Directors work injury. As an office-based financial services provider, we
and employees are asked to recommit to the Code annually, generate minimal hazardous waste or packaging material. As
and 99.5 per cent have completed the 2022 recommitment. such, these issues are not material and we do not report them.
All Board members have recommitted to the Code.
We aim to design and offer products based on client needs to
ensure fair treatment and outcomes for clients. The Group has
Managing environmental and social risk
in place a risk framework, comprising policies and standards,
The Board is responsible for ensuring that high standards of to support these objectives in alignment with our Conduct
responsible business are maintained and that an effective Risk Framework. This framework covers sales practices,
control framework is in place. This encompasses risk client communications, appropriateness and suitability, and
associated with clients’ operations and their potential post-sales practice. As part of this, we ensure products sold
impact on the environment, including climate change, are suitable for clients and comply with relevant laws and
and local communities. regulations. The Group does not manufacture products and
therefore does not have a defined quality assurance process
The Board recognises its responsibility to manage these
or recall procedures; nor does it sell or ship products that
risks and that failure to manage them adequately could
would be liable for return on health and safety grounds.
have adverse impact on stakeholders as well as the Group.
The Board, via the Culture and Sustainability Committee,
reviews sustainability priorities, and oversees the development
of, and delivery against, public commitments regarding the
activities and/or businesses that the Group will or will not
accept in alignment with our here for good brand promise.
226 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 227
Directors’
report
Compliance with Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures related to the Group’s environmental policies as
Disclosures (TCFD) well as GHG, energy efficiency, water and waste performance
In line with our ‘comply or explain’ obligation under the UK’s metrics are included in the Sustainability section of the
Financial Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules, we can confirm Strategic Report on pages 74 and 75, and in the
that we have made disclosures consistent with the TCFD Supplementary Environment Data table on pages 489 to 491.
Recommendations and Recommended Disclosures in this
Our reporting methodology is based upon the World
Annual Report, except for one area: we do not fully disclose
Resources Institute/ World Business Council for Sustainable
Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions as we currently focus on
Development Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate
the sectors which are most carbon intensive. Further
Accounting and Reporting Standard (Revised Edition).
information is available on pages 79 to 80.
We report on all emission sources required under the
In line with the current UK Listing Rules requirements, our Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’
TCFD disclosures also take into account the implementation Reports) Regulations.
guidance included in the TCFD 2021 Annex.
Using conversion factors from the International Energy
Agency 2021 Emissions Factors and the UK Government’s
EU Taxonomy
Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy,
The European Union Sustainable Finance Taxonomy (“EU emissions are reported in metric tonnes of carbon dioxide
Taxonomy”) is a classification system that establishes a list of equivalent (tCOe), encompassing the six Kyoto gases.
environmentally sustainable economic activities. It has come 2
into force as of 1 January 2022 for entities falling within the Scope 1 emissions are defined as arising from the consumption
scope of disclosures. of energy from direct sources, during the use of property
occupied by the Group. On-site combustion of fuels, including
Standard Chartered Bank AG has assessed that diesel, liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) and natural gas, is
implementation of the EU Taxonomy is not mandatory for recorded using meters, or where metering is not available,
Standard Chartered Bank AG at this stage given certain collated from fuel vendors’ invoices. Emissions from the
qualification thresholds; however, given the amendments combustion of fuel in Group-operated transportation
introduced by the Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive devices, as well as fugitive emissions, are excluded as
(“CSRD”) Standard Chartered Bank AG and Standard being immaterial.
Chartered PLC (the Group) have commenced preparation to
embed EU Taxonomy classifications and metrics and will Scope 2 emissions are defined as arising from the
continue to monitor expected policy developments from the consumption of indirect sources of energy, during the use of
European Commission concerning guidance on Taxonomy property occupied by the Group. Energy generated off-site
Alignment and Technical Screening Criteria to incrementally in the form of purchased electricity, heat, steam or cooling,
enhance our assessment and support reporting as required. is collected as kilowatt hours consumed using meters or where
metering is not available, collated from vendor’s invoices.
In this regard, the Group is developing digital capability to
help facilitate reporting against the different taxonomies Applicable to both Scope 1 and 2 emissions, we include all
that are being developed across the jurisdictions in which the indirect and direct sources of energy consumed by building
Group operates. As the EU Taxonomy is the most advanced, services (amongst other activities) within the space occupied
the digital solution will adopt a rules-based approach to by the Group, leased or owned. This can include base building
assess if a client and any client activity with the Group is services under landlord control, but over which we typically
in-scope and eligible for EU Taxonomy reporting. The hold a reasonable degree of influence.
intention is to expand this digital capability to include local All data centre facilities with conditioning systems and
taxonomy reporting and climate-related financial disclosures hardware remaining under the operational control of the
requirements. Group are included in the reporting. This does not include
The Group will consider taxonomy alignment in our business energy used at outsourced data centre facilities which are
decisions, including at a client and transaction level, as well as captured under Scope 3, Category 1.
more broadly at a sector strategy level. Given our footprint Scope 3 emissions occur as a consequence of the Group’s
across Europe/UK, Asia, Africa and the Middle East, we need activities but arising from sources not controlled by us.
to continually review our ability to assess taxonomy-alignment We have made great strides to enhance our Scope 3 GHG
based on information available from clients and through our reporting for both upstream and downstream categories.
due diligence process. Further information on the principles and methodologies used
to calculate the GHG emissions of the Group can be found on
Environmental impact of our operations pages 74 to 83 within the Strategic Report and in our reporting
We aim to minimise the environmental impact of our criteria document at sc.com/environmentcriteria.
operations as part of our commitment to be a responsible
company. We report on energy, water and non-hazardous
waste data which become the basis of our Greenhouse Gas
(GHG) emissions management, as well as the targets we have
set to reduce energy, water and waste consumption.
Directors’ report Other disclosures
Reporting period Accordingly, the operating income used in this inventory
The reporting period of our Scope 1 and 2, Scope 3 Category 6 corresponds to the same time period rather than the calendar
(business flights), Scope 3 Category 1 (data centres) and year used in financial reporting.
environmental resource efficiency data is from 1 October It is noted that there is a one year lag on data used for
2021 to 30 September 2022. This allows sufficient time for financed emissions. This is a result of time taken for our clients
independent assurance to be gained on our Scope 1 and 2 to report their financial and carbon emission information.
emissions prior to the publication of results. Our Scope 1 and 2 Therefore, the Group’s baseline as released in 2021 utilised
emissions are assured by an independent body, Global the 2020 year-end balance sheet date for client exposures,
Documentation, against the requirements of ISO14064. financial and carbon information and the 2022 updated
financed emissions utilises the 2021 year end balances.
We still refer to these as the 2022 and 2021 updates.
Assurance
Our Scope 1 and 2 emissions are independently assured by Global Documentation, in accordance with ISO 14064.
Units 2022 2021 2020
Reporting coverage of data
Headcount No. of employees 83,266 81,957 83,657
Annual operating income from 1 October to 30 September $ million 15,863 14,541 15,233
Net internal area of occupied property m2 946,234 998,571 1,050,414
Greenhouse gas emissions (location based)1
Scope 1 & 2: 2
Scope 1 emissions (combustion of fuels) tCOe 2,071 2,902 3,988
2
Scope 2 emissions (purchased electricity – location based) tCOe 47,363 82,761 113,870
2
Scope 1 & 2 emissions (location based) tCOe 49,434 85,662 117,858
2
Scope 1 & 2 emissions (UK and offshore area only) tCOe – – –
2
Scope 3:
Purchased goods (Global data centres) tCOe 706 43,132 29,562
2
Business travel (Air travel) tCOe 39,107 3,654 33,930
2
Total scope 1,2 and 3 tCOe 89,247 132,448 181,350
2
T GHG emissions – Intensity:
Total Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions/headcount tCOe/headcount/year 1.07 1.62 2.17
2
Total Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions/operating income tCOe/$m 5.63 9.11 11.91
2
Environmental resource efficiency
Energy
Indirect non-renewable energy consumption GWh/year 142 142 184
Indirect renewable energy consumption GWh/year 24 28 14
Direct non-renewable energy consumption GWh/year 10 12 17
Direct renewable energy consumption GWh/year 1 1 1
Energy consumption3 GWh/year 177 183 216
Energy consumption (UK and offshore area only) GWh/year 6 5 –
Energy consumption/Headcount kWH/headcount/year 2,129 2,233 2,544
1 Standard Chartered measures greenhouse gas emissions using the Greenhouse Gas emissions protocol
2 Despite only a 5 per cent reduction in our measured real estate, we reduced our Scope 1 and 2 emissions by more than 42 per cent to 49,434 tonnes during 2022.
This has been possible through a consumption reduction of 3 per cent to 177.3 GWh through energy-efficient investment, plus a 12 per cent increase in renewable
energy (being through direct power purchase agreements, green utilities and renewable energy certificates) across the portfolio.
3 Included in energy consumption is our scope 1 emissions from the combustion of fuel. This energy usage has been measured in litres of fuel and converted to
GWh/year using an energy intensity factor
Further detail on our environment performance, as well as associated assumptions and methodologies can be found on pages 74 to 83
within the Strategic Report and in our reporting criteria document at sc.com/environmentcriteria.
228 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 231
Directors’
report
Statement of directors’ responsibilities
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also
Report and the Group and Company financial statements responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors’ Report,
in accordance with applicable law and regulations. Directors’ Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance
Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and
Company financial statements for each financial year. The directors are responsible for the maintenance and
Under that law: integrity of the corporate and financial information included
on the Company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing the
• The Group financial statements have been prepared in
preparation and dissemination of financial statements differ
accordance with UK-adopted International Accounting
from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Standards and International Financial Reporting Standards
as adopted by the European Union;
Responsibility statement of the directors in
• The Company financial statements have been properly respect of the annual financial report
prepared in accordance with UK-adopted International
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
Accounting Standards as applied in accordance with
section 408 of the Companies Act 2006; and • The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair
• The financial statements have been prepared in
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or
accordance with the requirements of the Companies
loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the
Act 2006.
consolidation taken as a whole; and
Under company law the directors must not approve the
• The Strategic report includes a fair review of the
financial statements unless they are satisfied that they
development and performance of the business and the
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group
position of the Company and the undertakings included
and Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a
In preparing each of the Group and Company financial
description of the emerging risks and uncertainties that
statements, the directors are required to:
they face
• Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
We consider the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a
consistently;
whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the
• Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable, information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s
relevant and reliable; position and performance, business model and strategy.
• State whether they have been prepared in accordance
with UK-adopted International Accounting Standards and
By order of the Board
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by
the European Union;
• Assess the Group and the Company’s ability to continue as
a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related
to going concern; and Andy Halford
Group Chief Financial Officer
• Use the going concern basis of accounting unless they
either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to 16 February 2023
cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to
do so
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate
accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain
the Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company
and enable them to ensure that its financial statements
comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are responsible
for such internal control1 as they determine is necessary to
enable the preparation of financial statements that are free
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error,
and have general responsibility for taking such steps as
are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of
the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other
irregularities.
1 The Group’s Risk Management Framework and System of Internal Control
applies only to wholly controlled subsidiaries of the Group, and not to
Associates, Joint Ventures or Structured Entities of the Group
Standard Chartered — Annual Report 2022 295
Risk
review
and
Capital
review
Enterprise Risk Management Framework
Effective risk management is essential in delivering consistent and
sustainable performance for all our stakeholders and is a central part of
the financial and operational management of the Group. The Group
adds value to clients and the communities in which they operate by
taking and managing appropriate levels of risk, which in turn generates
returns for shareholders.
The Enterprise Risk Management Framework (ERMF) enables Strategic risk management
the Group to manage enterprise-wide risks, with the objective The Group approaches strategic risk management as follows:
of maximising risk-adjusted returns while remaining within our
Risk Appetite. The ERMF has been designed with the explicit • By conducting an impact analysis on the risk profile from
goal of improving the Group’s risk management, and since growth plans, strategic initiatives and
T e
i
G
t
f h
s
r
f
o
e
l
e
a
u
c E
u
p
t R
n
i v
a
M
c
e
n
h
F f
d
r
i
i
n
o s
r
m
o
J
re
a
ll
v
e
J
n
a i
d
u
e n w
a
o
u
r
u
e
y
a
t
d r
2
t
y a
0
o
2 n
1
i
8
0
t
n
s
,
2 u
i
b
3
t
a .
r
h
l
a
l
a
y
n
s
a
c
b
h
n
e
e
d
e
s
t
n
a
h e
n
e m
d
la
s
b
t
u
e
e
b
s
d
t
s
d
i
v
d
e
e
i
d
a
rs
r
a
i
i
o
e
c
n
s
r o
1
i
.
s
s s the b
t
m t t
h
h h
u
a
e
a e
s
n t
i
a
s
n
a t n
i
e
r
m
g e a
s
e i
s
t n
o
e d
m
g
f
g t
p
o
n y o
r
d
e r
o
b e w
e
a
e v
l
c
i r
v
r e
t
i e
u
s
i
w
v
k p
ln
e
s r p
e
i
l
o o
y
r
r
o r r
a
i
i
d
e c t
b
i
e
e x s
il
i
n
e s
i
s
t
s
t
d t
i
.
i
e
i
f
n a
s
y
g
,
s
i n
w
r p
g
i
i
s a
t
k
a
h
r s t
n
o
d
f Risk A p p
etit e
st G ra ro te
R
u
is
g p
k id
y
e
n tifi ca tio n
Risk culture • By confirming that growth plans and Stress testing
strategic initiatives can be delivered
The Group’s risk culture provides guiding principles for the
within the approved Risk Appetite and/or proposing
behaviours expected from our people when managing risk.
additional Risk Appetite for Board consideration as part
The Board has approved a risk culture statement that
of the strategy review process.
encourages the following behaviours and outcomes:
• By validating the Corporate Plan against the approved or
• An enterprise-level ability to identify and assess current and
proposed Risk Appetite Statement to the Board. The Board
future risks, openly discuss these and take prompt actions.
approves the strategy review and the five-year Corporate
• The highest level of integrity by being transparent and Plan with a confirmation from the Group Chief Risk Officer
proactive in disclosing and managing all types of risks. (GCRO) that it is aligned with the ERMF and the Group Risk
Appetite Statement where projections allow.
• A constructive and collaborative approach in providing
oversight and challenge, and taking decisions in a timely • Country Risk management approach and Country Risk
manner. reviews are used to ensure the country limits and exposures
are reasonable and in line with Group strategy, country
• Everyone to be accountable for their decisions and
strategy, and the operating environment, considering the
feel safe in using their judgement to make these
identified risks.
considered decisions.
We acknowledge that banking inherently involves risk-taking Roles and responsibilities
and undesired outcomes will occur from time to time; however,
we shall take the opportunity to learn from our experience Senior Managers Regime2
and formalise what we can do to improve. We expect Roles and responsibilities under the ERMF are aligned to the
managers to demonstrate a high awareness of risk and objectives of the Senior Managers Regime. The GCRO is
control by self-identifying issues and managing them in a responsible for the overall development and maintenance
manner that will deliver lasting change. of the Group’s ERMF and for identifying material risk types
to which the Group may be potentially exposed. The GCRO
delegates effective implementation of the Risk Type
Frameworks (RTFs) to Risk Framework Owners who provide
second line of defence oversight for the Principal Risk Types
(PRTs). In addition, the GCRO has been formally identified as
the relevant senior manager responsible for the development
of the Group’s Digital Asset Risk Assessment Approach, as
well as the senior manager responsible for Climate Risk
management as it relates to financial and non-financial risks
to the Group arising from climate change. This does not
include elements of corporate social responsibility, the Group’s
contribution to climate change and the Sustainable Finance
strategy supporting a low-carbon transition, which are the
responsibility of other relevant senior managers.
1 The Group’s Risk Management Framework and System of Internal Control applies only to wholly controlled subsidiaries of the Group, and not to Associates,
Joint Ventures or Structured Entities of the Group.
2 Senior managers refer to individuals designated as senior management functions under the FCA and PRA Senior Managers Regime (SMR).
Risk review Risk management approach
The Risk function The independence of the Risk function ensures that the
The Risk function is responsible for the sustainability of our necessary balance in making risk and return decisions is not
business through good management of risk across the Group compromised by short-term pressures to generate revenues.
by providing oversight and challenge, thereby ensuring that In addition, the Risk function is a centre of excellence that
business is conducted in line with regulatory expectations. provides specialist capabilities relevant to risk management
The GCRO directly manages the Risk function, which is processes in the broader organisation.
separate and independent from the origination, trading The Risk function supports the Group’s commitment to be
and sales functions of the businesses. The Risk function is here for good by building a sustainable framework that
responsible for: places regulatory and compliance standards and a culture of
• Maintaining the ERMF, ensuring that it remains relevant appropriate conduct at the forefront of the Group’s agenda,
and appropriate to the Group’s business activities, and is in a manner proportionate to the nature, scale and complexity
effectively communicated and implemented across the of the Group’s business.
Group, and administering related governance and Conduct, Financial Crime and Compliance (CFCC), under the
reporting processes. Management Team leadership of the Group Head, CFCC,
• Upholding the overall integrity of the Group’s risk and return works alongside the Risk function within the framework of
decisions to ensure that risks are properly assessed, that the ERMF to deliver a unified second line of defence.
these decisions are made transparently on the basis of
proper assessments and that risks are controlled in Three lines of defence model
accordance with the Group’s standards and Risk Appetite Roles and responsibilities for risk management are defined
under a three lines of defence model. Each line of defence
• Overseeing and challenging the management of Principal
has a specific set of responsibilities for risk management and
Risk Types and Integrated Risk Types under the ERMF.
control, as shown in the table below.
Lines of defence Definition Key responsibilities include
The businesses and functions engaged in or • Propose the risks required to undertake revenue-generating
1st
supporting revenue-generating activities that activities
own and manage the risks • Identify, assess, monitor and escalate risks and issues to the
second line and senior management and promote a healthy
risk culture and good conduct
• Validate and self-assess compliance to RTFs and policies,
confirm the quality of validation, and provide evidence-based
affirmation to the second line
• Manage risks within Risk Appetite, set and execute
remediation plans and ensure laws and regulations are being
complied with
• Ensure systems meet risk data aggregation, risk reporting and
data quality requirements set by the second line.
The control functions independent of the first • Identify, monitor and escalate risks and issues to the GCRO,
2nd
line that provide oversight and challenge of risk senior management and the Board and promote a healthy
management to provide confidence to the risk culture and good conduct
GCRO, senior management and the Board • Oversee and challenge first-line risk-taking activities and
review first-line risk proposals
• Propose Risk Appetite to the Board, monitor and report
adherence to Risk Appetite and intervene to curtail business if
it is not in line with an existing or adjusted Risk Appetite, there
is material non-compliance with policy requirements, or when
operational controls do not effectively manage risk
• Set risk data aggregation, risk reporting and data quality
requirements
• Ensure that there are appropriate controls to comply with
applicable laws and regulations, and escalate significant
non-compliance matters to senior management and the
appropriate committees.
The Internal Audit function provides • Independently assess whether management has identified
3rd
independent assurance on the effectiveness of the key risks in the businesses and whether these are
controls that support first line’s risk management reported and governed in line with the established risk
of business activities, and the processes management processes
maintained by the second line • Independently assess the adequacy of the design of controls
and their operating effectiveness.
296 Standard Chartered — Annual Report 2022
Risk review Risk management approach
The Board delegates approval of stress test submissions to The Group currently recognises Climate Risk, Digital Asset Risk
the BoE to the Board Risk Committee, which reviews the and Third-Party Risk as Integrated Risk Types. Climate Risk is
recommendations from the Group Risk Committee. defined as “the potential for financial loss and non-financial
detriments arising from climate change and society’s
Based on the stress test results, the Group Chief Financial
response to it”; Digital Asset Risk is defined as “the potential
Officer and Group Chief Risk Officer can recommend strategic
for regulatory penalties, financial loss and or reputational
actions to the Board to ensure that the Group strategy
damage to the Group resulting from digital asset exposure or
remains within the Board-approved Risk Appetite.
digital asset related activities arising from the Group’s Clients,
Products and Projects” and Third-Party Risk is defined as “the
Principal Risk Types
potential for loss or adverse impact from failure to manage
Principal Risk Types are those risks that are inherent in our multiple risks arising from the use of third parties, and is the
strategy and business model and have been formally defined aggregate of these risks.”
in the Group’s ERMF. These risks are managed through distinct
RTFs which are approved by the Group Chief Risk Officer. In future reviews, we will continue to consider if existing
Principal Risk Types or incremental risks should be treated as
The Principal Risk Types and associated Risk Appetite Integrated Risk Types. The table below shows the Group’s
Statements are approved by the Board. current Principal Risk Types.
Principal Risk Types Definition
Credit Risk • Potential for loss due to the failure of a counterparty to meet its agreed obligations to pay
the Group.
Traded Risk • Potential for loss resulting from activities undertaken by the Group in financial markets.
Treasury Risk • Potential for insufficient capital, liquidity or funding to support our operations, the risk of
reductions in earnings or value from movements in interest rates impacting banking book
items and the potential for losses from a shortfall in the Group’s pension plans.
Operational and Technology Risk • Potential for loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, technology events,
human error, or from the impact of external events (including legal risks).
Information and Cyber Security Risk • Risk to the Group’s assets, operations and individuals due to the potential for unauthorised
access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction of information assets and/or
information systems.
Compliance Risk • Potential for penalties or loss to the Group or for an adverse impact to our clients,
stakeholders or to the integrity of the markets we operate in through a failure on our
part to comply with laws or regulations.
Financial Crime Risk • Potential for legal or regulatory penalties, material financial loss or reputational damage
resulting from the failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations relating to
international sanctions, anti-money laundering, anti-bribery and corruption, and fraud.
Model Risk • Potential loss that may occur as a consequence of decisions or the risk of mis-estimation
that could be principally based on the output of models, due to errors in the development,
implementation or use of such models.
Reputational and Sustainability Risk • Potential for damage to the franchise (such as loss of trust, earnings or market capitalisation),
because of stakeholders taking a negative view of the Group through actual or perceived
actions or inactions, including a failure to uphold responsible business conduct or lapses in
our commitment to do no significant environmental and social harm through our client,
third-party relationships, or our own operations.
ERMF effectiveness reviews • Self-assessments performed in our footprint markets reflect
The GCRO is responsible for annually affirming the the embeddedness of ERMF adoption with an emphasis
effectiveness of the ERMF to the Board Risk Committee. on first-line ownership of risks. Country and regional risk
An ERMF effectiveness review was established in 2018 to committees continue to play an active role in managing
facilitate this affirmation, which follows the principle of and overseeing material issues arising in countries.
evidence-based self-assessments for all the Risk Type Ongoing ERMF effectiveness reviews allow for a structured
Frameworks and relevant policies. A top-down review and approach to identify improvement opportunities and build
challenge of the results is conducted by the GCRO with all plans to address them. Over the course of 2023, the Group
Risk Framework Owners and an opinion on the internal aims to further strengthen its risk management practices by
control environment is provided by Group Internal Audit. further improving on the management of non-financial risks
The ERMF effectiveness review is conducted annually and and integrated risks within its businesses, functions and across
enables measurement of progress against the 2018 baseline. the footprint.
The key outcomes of the 2022 effectiveness review are:
Executive and Board risk oversight
• The focus in 2022 continued on the effective embedding of
the framework across the organisation. Overview
The Board has ultimate responsibility for risk management
• While the more mature financial risks continued to be more
and is supported by five core Board-level committees. The
effectively managed, the Group continues to make progress
Board approves the ERMF based on the recommendation
in embedding the non-financial risk management
from the Board Risk Committee, which also recommends the
• Other aspects of the ERMF, including the key risk Group Risk Appetite Statement for all Principal Risk Types. In
committees and key supporting standards, are established. addition, the Culture and Sustainability Committee oversees
the Group’s culture and key sustainability priorities.
298 Standard Chartered — Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered — Annual Report 2022 299
Risk
review
and
Capital
review
Board and Executive level risk committee governance structure
The Committee governance structure below presents the view as of 2022.
Board of Directors
Board level committees
Board Risk Culture and Remuneration Governance Audit
Committee Sustainability Committee and Committee
Committee Nomination
Committee
Executive level committees
Group Risk Committee Group Asset and Liability Committee
Group Non-Financial Risk Committee
Group Financial Crime Risk Committee
Group Responsibility and Reputational Risk Committee
IFRS 9 Impairment Committee
Model Risk Committee
Corporate, Commercial and Institutional Banking Risk Committee
Consumer, Private and Business Banking Risk Committee
Asia Risk Committee
Africa and Middle East Risk Committee
The committee governance structure ensures that
Investment Committee
risk-taking authority and risk management policies are
Investment Committee for Transportation Assets cascaded down from the Board to the appropriate
Standard Chartered Ventures Committee functional, client segment and country-level senior
management and committees. Information regarding
Regulatory Interpretation Committee
material risk issues and compliance with policies and
Climate Risk Management Committee standards is communicated to the appropriate country,
client segment, functional and Group-level senior
Digital Assets Risk Committee
management and committees.
Asia Risk Committee derives authority from both the Group Risk Committee (for oversight of the Asia region) and the Executive Committee of Standard
Chartered Bank (Hong Kong) Limited (“SCBHK”) for oversight of SCBHK Group.
Risk review Risk management approach
Group Risk Committee The Investment Committee, chaired by a representative of
The Group Risk Committee, which derives its authority the Risk function, ensures the optimised wind-down of the
from the GCRO, is responsible for ensuring the effective Group’s existing direct investment activities in equities,
management of risk throughout the Group in support of the quasi-equities (excluding mezzanine), funds and other
Group’s strategy. The GCRO chairs the Group Risk Committee, alternative investments (excluding debt/debt-like
whose members are drawn from the Group’s Management instruments) as well as equity or quasi-equity stake obtained
Team. The Committee oversees the effective implementation as a result of restructuring of distressed debt, non-core
of the ERMF for the Group, including the delegation of any equities and limited partner investments in funds linked to
part of its authorities to appropriate individuals or properly CCIB and managed by Credit and Portfolio Management.
constituted sub-committees.
The Investment Committee for Transportation Assets, chaired
by the Chief Risk Officer, CCIB and Europe & Americas or
Group Risk Committee sub-committees
Global Head, Credit and Portfolio Management, CCIB ensures
The Group Non-Financial Risk Committee, chaired by the the optimisation of the Group’s investment in aviation
Global Head, Risk Functions and Operational Risk, governs operating lease assets with the aim of delivering better
the non-financial risks across clients, businesses, products returns through the cycle and wind down of shipping
and functions. The Committee also reviews the adequacy operating lease assets.
of the internal control system across all Principal Risk Types.
The SC Ventures (SCV) Risk Committee, chaired by the Chief
The Group Financial Crime Risk Committee, chaired by the Risk Officer, SCV, receives authority directly from the GCRO
Group Head, Conduct, Financial Crime and Compliance, and oversees the effective management of risk throughout
governs the Financial Crime Risk Type (excluding Fraud Risk SCV and the individual entities operating under SCV.
and Secondary Reputational Risk that is consequential in
nature arising from risks pertaining to Financial Crime Risk) The Climate Risk Management Committee, chaired by the
across the Group. The Committee ensures that the Financial Global Head, Enterprise Risk Management, oversees the
Crime Risk profile is managed within approved Risk Appetite effective implementation of the Group’s Climate Risk
and policies. workplan. This includes relevant regulatory requirements and
covers Climate Risk related financial and non-financial risks.
The Group Responsibility and Reputational Risk Committee,
chaired by the Group Head, Conduct, Financial Crime The Regulatory Interpretation Committee, co-chaired by the
and Compliance, ensures the effective management of Global Head Enterprise Risk Management and Group Head,
Reputational and Sustainability Risk across the Group. Central Finance, provides oversight of material regulatory
This includes providing oversight of matters arising from interpretations for the Capital Requirements Regulation (as
clients, products, transactions and strategic coverage- amended by UK legislation), the PRA rulebook and other
related decisions and matters escalated by the respective relevant regulations impacting Group regulatory capital
Risk Framework Owners. calculations and reporting. The areas and risk types in scope
are credit risk, traded risk, operational risk, large exposures
The IFRS 9 Impairment Committee, co-chaired by the and leverage ratio.
Global Head Enterprise Risk Management and Group Head,
Central Finance, ensures the effective management of the The Digital Assets Risk Committee, chaired by the Global
expected credit loss computations as well as stage allocation Head, Enterprise Risk Management, ensures effective
of financial assets for quarterly financial reporting within the management of Digital Assets (DA) related risks across the
authorities set by the Group Risk Committee. Group. This includes providing oversight of DA risk related
matters arising from projects, products and clients and third
The Model Risk Committee, chaired by the Global Head, parties in relation to the DA services that they will be providing
Enterprise Risk Management, ensures the effective to any of the Businesses.
measurement and management of Model Risk in line with
internal policies and Model Risk Appetite. Group Asset and Liability Committee
The Corporate, Commercial and Institutional Banking (CCIB) The Group Asset and Liability Committee is chaired by
Risk Committee, chaired by the Chief Risk Officer, CCIB and the Group Chief Financial Officer. Its members are drawn
Europe & Americas, ensures the effective management of risk principally from the Management Team. The Committee is
throughout CCIB and Europe & Americas, in support of the responsible for determining the Group’s approach to balance
Group’s strategy. sheet strategy and recovery planning. The Committee is
also responsible for ensuring that, in executing the Group’s
The Consumer, Private and Business Banking (CPBB) Risk
strategy, the Group operates within the internally approved
Committee, chaired by the Chief Risk Officer, CPBB, ensures
Risk Appetite and external requirements relating to capital,
the effective management of risk throughout CPBB in support
loss-absorbing capacity, liquidity, leverage, Interest Rate Risk
of the Group’s strategy.
in the Banking Book, Banking Book Basis Risk and Structural
The Asia Risk Committee and the Africa and Middle East Foreign Exchange Risk, as well as monitoring the structural
Risk Committee are chaired by the Chief Risk Officer for the impact of decisions around sustainable finance, net zero and
respective region. These ensure the effective management climate risk. The Committee is also responsible for ensuring
of risk in the regions in support of the Group’s strategy. that internal and external recovery planning requirements
are met.
300 Standard Chartered — Annual Report 2022
Risk review Risk management approach
Treasury Risk
Treasury Risk is defined as the “potential for insufficient Risk Appetite Statement
capital, liquidity or funding to support our operations, The Group should maintain sufficient capital,
the risk of reductions in earnings or value from liquidity and funding to support its operations, and
an interest rate profile ensuring that the reductions
movements in interest rates impacting banking book
in earnings or value from movements in interest
items and the potential for losses from a shortfall in the
rates impacting banking book items does not
Group’s pension plans”. cause material damage to the Group’s franchise. In
addition, the Group should ensure its Pension plans
are adequately funded.
Roles and responsibilities The Group contracts hedges to manage its structural FX
The Global Head, Enterprise Risk Management is responsible position in accordance with the Board-approved Risk
for the Risk Type Framework for Treasury Risk under the Appetite, and as a result the Group has taken net investment
Enterprise Risk Management Framework. hedges to partially cover its exposure to certain non-US dollar
currencies to mitigate the FX impact of such positions on its
The Group Treasurer is supported by teams in Treasury and capital ratios.
Finance to implement the Treasury Risk Type Framework as
the first line of defence, and is responsible for managing Liquidity and Funding Risk
Treasury Risk.
At Group, regional and country level we implement various
At Regional and Country level, Chief Executive Officers business-as-usual and stress risk metrics and monitor these
supported by Regional and Country level Finance and against Limits and Management Action Triggers. In addition
Treasury teams are responsible for managing Treasury Risk as to these, where relevant, Monitoring Metrics are also set
the first line of defence. Regional Treasury Chief Risk Officers against specific risks. This ensures that the Group maintains
and Country Chief Risk Officers for Treasury Risk (except an adequate and well-diversified liquidity buffer, as well as
Pension Risk) and Head of Pensions (for Pension Risk) are a stable funding base, and that it meets its liquidity and
responsible for overseeing and challenging the first line funding regulatory requirements. The approach to managing
of defence. risks and the Board Risk Appetite are assessed annually
through the Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process.
Mitigation A funding plan is also developed for efficient liquidity
The Group develops policies to address material Treasury projections to ensure that the Group is adequately funded
Risks and aims to maintain its risk profile within Risk Appetite. in the required currencies, to meet its obligations and client
In order to do this, metrics are set against Capital Risk, funding needs. The funding plan is part of the overall
Liquidity and Funding Risk and Interest Rate Risk in the Corporate Plan process aligning to the capital requirements.
Banking Book (IRRBB). Where appropriate, Risk Appetite
metrics are cascaded down to regions and countries in the Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Book
form of Limits and Management Action Triggers. This risk arises from differences in the repricing profile, interest
rate basis, and optionality of banking book assets, liabilities
Capital Risk and off-balance sheet items. IRRBB represents an economic
In order to manage Capital Risk, strategic business and capital and commercial risk to the Group and its capital adequacy.
plans (Corporate Plan) are drawn up covering a five-year The Group monitors IRRBB against the Board Risk Appetite.
horizon which are approved by the Board annually. The plan
ensures that adequate levels of capital, including loss- Pension Risk
absorbing capacity, and an efficient mix of the different Pension Risk is the potential for loss due to having to meet an
components of capital are maintained to support our strategy actuarially assessed shortfall in the Group’s pension plans.
and business plans. Pension obligation risk to a firm arises from its contractual or
other liabilities to or with respect to an occupational pension
Treasury is responsible for the ongoing assessment of the
plan or other long term benefit obligation. For a funded plan it
demand for capital and the updating of the Group’s
represents the risk that additional contributions will need to
capital plan.
be made because of a future shortfall in the funding of the
Risk Appetite metrics including capital, leverage, minimum plan or, for unfunded obligations, it represents the risk that
requirement for own funds and eligible liability (MREL) and the cost of meeting future benefit payments is greater than
double leverage are assessed within the Corporate Plan currently anticipated. Pension Risk position against defined
to ensure that the strategy can be achieved within Risk Appetite metrics is reported to the Group Risk Committee.
risk tolerances. These metrics include the current IAS 19 deficit, and the total
capital requirement (including both Pillar 1 and Pillar 2A
Structural FX Risk capital) in respect of Pension Risk, both expressed as a
The Group’s structural position results from the Group’s number of basis points of RWA.
non-US dollar investment in the share capital and reserves
of subsidiaries and branches. The FX translation gains, or
losses are recorded in the Group’s translation reserves with
a direct impact on the Group’s Common Equity Tier 1 ratio.
306 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Risk review Risk management approach
Operational and Technology Risk
The Group defines Operational and Technology Risk Risk Appetite Statement
as the potential for loss resulting from inadequate or The Group aims to control operational and
failed internal processes, technology events, human technology risks to ensure that operational losses
(financial or reputational), including any related to
error or from the impact of external events (including
conduct of business matters, do not cause material
legal risks).
damage to the Group’s franchise.
Roles and responsibilities for the governance and oversight of Operational Risk for the
The Operational and Technology Risk Type Framework Group, monitors the Group’s Operational and Technology Risk
(O&T RTF) sets the roles and responsibilities in respect of Appetite and relies on other key Group committees for the
Operational Risk for the Group, and is owned by the Global management of Operational Risk, in particular the Group
Head of Risk, Functions and Operational Risk (GHRFOR). Non-Financial Risk Committee (GNFRC).
This framework collectively defines the Group’s Operational Regional business segments and functional committees also
Risk sub-types which have not been classified as PRTs and provide enterprise oversight of their respective processes and
sets standards for the identification, control, monitoring and related operational risks. In addition, Country Non-Financial
treatment of risks. These standards are applicable across all Risk Committees (CNFRCs) oversee the management of
PRTs and risk sub-types in the O&T RTF. These risk sub-types Operational Risk at the country (or entity) level. In smaller
relate to execution capability, governance, reporting and countries, the responsibilities of the CNFRC may be exercised
obligations, legal enforceability, and operational resilience directly by the Country Risk Committee (for branches) or
(including client service, change management, people Executive Risk Committee (for subsidiaries).
management, safety and security, and technology risk).
The O&T RTF reinforces clear accountability for managing risk Decision-making authorities and delegation
throughout the Group and delegates second line of defence The O&T RTF is the formal mechanism through which the
responsibilities to identified subject matter experts. For each delegation of Operational Risk authorities is made. The
risk sub-type, the expert sets policies and standards for the GHRFOR places reliance on the respective Senior Managers
organisation to comply with, and provides guidance, oversight who are outside the Risk function for second-line oversight
and challenge over the activities of the Group. They ensure of the risk sub-types through this framework. The Senior
that key risk decisions are only taken by individuals with the Managers may further delegate their second-line
requisite skills, judgement, and perspective to ensure that the responsibilities to designated individuals at a global business,
Group’s risk-return objectives are met. product and function level, as well as regional or country level.
Mitigation Monitoring
The O&T RTF sets out the Group’s overall approach to the To deliver services to clients and to participate in the financial
management of Operational Risk in line with the Group’s services sector, the Group runs processes which are exposed
Operational and Technology Risk Appetite. This is supported to operational risks. The Group prioritises and manages risks
by Risk and Control Self-Assessment (RCSA) which defines which are significant to clients and to the financial services
roles and responsibilities for the identification, control and sectors. Control indicators are regularly monitored to
monitoring of risks (applicable to all PRTs, risk sub-types and determine the residual risk the Group is exposed to.
integrated risks).
The residual risk assessments and reporting of events form
The RCSA is used to determine the design strength and the Group’s Operational Risk profile. The completeness of the
reliability of each process, and requires: Operational Risk profile ensures appropriate prioritisation and
timeliness of risk decisions, including risk acceptances with
• the recording of processes run by client segments, products
treatment plans for risks that exceed acceptable thresholds.
and functions into a process universe
The Board is informed on adherence to Operational and
• the identification of potential breakdowns to these
Technology Risk Appetite through metrics reported for
processes and the related risks of such breakdowns
selected risks. These metrics are monitored, and escalation
• an assessment of the impact of the identified risks based on thresholds are devised based on the materiality and
a consistent scale significance of the risk. These Operational and Technology
Risk Appetite metrics are consolidated on a regular basis and
• the design and monitoring of controls to mitigate
reported at relevant Group committees. This provides senior
prioritised risks
management with the relevant information to inform their
• assessments of residual risk and timely actions for risk decisions.
elevated risks.
Stress testing
Risks that exceed the Group’s Operational and Technology
Risk Appetite require treatment plans to address Stress testing and scenario analysis are used to assess capital
underlying causes. requirements for operational risks. This approach considers
the impact of extreme but plausible scenarios on the Group’s
Governance committee oversight Operational Risk profile. A number of scenarios have been
identified to test the robustness of the Group’s processes and
At Board level, the Board Risk Committee oversees the
assess the potential impact on the Group. These scenarios
effective management of Operational Risk. At the
include anti-money laundering and sanctions, as well as
executive level, the Group Risk Committee is responsible
information and cyber security.
308 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 309
Risk
review
and
Capital
review
Information and Cyber Security (ICS) Risk
The Group defines Information and Cyber Security Risk Appetite Statement
Risk as the risk to the Group’s assets, operations and The Group has zero appetite for very high ICS
individuals due to the potential for unauthorised residual risks and low appetite for High ICS residual
risks which result in loss of services, data or funds.
access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification,
The Group will implement an effective ICS control
or destruction of information assets and/or
environment and proactively identify and respond
information systems. to emerging ICS threats in order to limit ICS
incidents impacting the Group’s franchise.
Roles and responsibilities Meanwhile the Cyber Security Advisory Forum (CSAF),
The Group’s Information and Cyber Security Risk Type chaired by the Group Chief Executive Officer, enables the
Framework (ICS RTF) defines the roles and responsibilities Management Team, Group Chairman and non-executive
of the first and second lines of defence in managing and directors to engage further on ICS, asking any questions freely
governing ICS Risk across the Group. It emphasises business at this non-governance forum.
ownership and individual accountability.
Decision-making authorities and delegation
The Group Chief Transformation, Technology & Operations
The ICS RTF defines how the Group manages ICS Risk. The
Officer (CTTO) has overall first line of defence responsibility
Group CISRO delegates authority to designated individuals
for ICS Risk and is accountable for the Group’s ICS strategy.
through the ICS RTF, including second-line ownership at a
The Group Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) leads the
Business, Function, Region and Country level.
development and execution of the ICS strategy. The first line
also manages all key ICS Risks, breaches and risk treatment The Group CISO is responsible for implementing ICS Risk
plans with oversight from Group Chief Information Security Management within the Group, leveraging Group Process
Risk Officer (CISRO). ICS Risk profile, Risk Appetite breaches Owners and Business CISOs. These stakeholders cascade
and remediation status are reported at Board and Executive ICS risk management into the Businesses, Functions and
committees, alongside Business, Function and Country Countries to comply with the ICS RTF, policy and standards.
governance committees.
Monitoring
The Group CISRO function within Group Risk, led by the Group
CISRO, is the second line of defence and sets the framework, Group CISO perform a threat-led risk assessment to identify
policy, standards and methodology for assessing, scoring and key threats, in-scope applications and key controls required
prioritising ICS Risks across the Group. This function has overall to ensure the Group remains within Risk Appetite.
responsibility for governance, oversight and independent The ICS Risk postures of all businesses, functions and countries
challenge of first line’s pursuit of the ICS strategy. Group ICS are consolidated to present a holistic Group-level ICS Risk
Risk Framework Strategy remains the responsibility of the ICS posture for ongoing monitoring.
Risk Framework Owner (RFO), delegated from the Group CRO
to the Group CISRO. During these reviews, the status of each risk is assessed
against the Group’s controls to identify any changes to
Mitigation impact and likelihood, which affects the overall risk rating.
ICS Risk is managed through the structured ICS Risk Type Group CISO and Group CISRO monitor the ICS Risk profile and
Framework, comprising a risk assessment methodology and ensure that breaches of Risk Appetite are escalated to the
supporting policy, standards and methodologies. These are appropriate governance committee or authority levels for
aligned to industry recommended practice. We undertake adequate remediation and tracking. A dedicated Group
an annual ICS Effectiveness Review to evaluate ICS Risk CISRO team is supporting this work by executing offensive
management practices in alignment with the Enterprise Risk security testing exercises, which shows wider picture of risk
Management Framework. security posture what leads to better visibility on potential
risks “in flight”.
In 2022, we uplifted the ICS RTF to include an updated ICS
end-to-end Risk Management and Governance approach
Stress testing
and continued the roll out of the threat-led scenario risk
assessment across the Group. The Group CISRO function Stress testing and scenario analysis are used to assess capital
monitors compliance to the ICS RTF by reviewing Group requirements for ICS Risk. Specific scenarios are developed
CISO’s risk assessments and conducting independent annually in collaboration between first- and second-line ICS
assurance reviews. teams, incorporating extreme but plausible ICS Risk events.
Governance committee oversight
The Board Risk Committee oversees the effective
management of ICS Risk. The Group Risk Committee (GRC)
has delegated authority to the Group Non-Financial Risk
Committee (GNFRC) to ensure effective implementation of
the ICS RTF. The GRC and GNFRC are responsible for oversight
of ICS Risk posture and Risk Appetite breaches rated very high
and high. Sub-committees of the GNFRC have oversight of
ICS Risk management arising from the Businesses, Countries
and Functions.
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 311
Risk
review
and
Capital
review
Financial Crime Risk
The Group defines Financial Crime Risk as the potential Risk Appetite Statement
for legal or regulatory penalties, material financial loss The Group has no appetite for breaches in laws
or reputational damage resulting from the failure to and regulations related to financial crime,
recognising that while incidents are unwanted,
comply with applicable laws and regulations relating
they cannot be entirely avoided.
to international sanctions, anti-money laundering,
anti-bribery and corruption, and fraud.
Roles and responsibilities Throughout the Group, the GFCRC is responsible for ensuring
The Group Head, CFCC has overall responsibility for Financial effective oversight for Operational Risk relating to Financial
Crime Risk and is responsible for the establishment and Crime Risk, while the GNFRC is responsible for ensuring
maintenance of effective systems and controls to meet legal effective oversight of Operational Risk relating to Non-
and regulatory obligations in respect of Financial Crime Risk. Financial Risks including Fraud Risk. Given the progress made
The Group Head, CFCC is the Group’s Compliance and on the Board Financial Crime Risk Committee’s (BFCRC)
Money-Laundering Reporting Officer and performs the FCA purpose with respect to financial crime risk management,
controlled function and senior management function in the Board reallocated the work of the BFCRC to the Audit
accordance with the requirements set out by the FCA, Committee, Board Risk Committee and Board with effect from
including those set out in their handbook on systems and 1 April 2022. The reallocation of BFCRC oversight enables a
controls. As the first line, the business unit process owners have more holistic and efficient examination and discussion of risks
responsibility for the application of policy controls and the that are closely linked.
identification and measurement of risks relating to financial Decision-making authorities and delegation
crime. Business units must communicate risks and any policy
non-compliance to the second line for review and approval The Financial Crime Risk Type Framework is the formal
following the model for delegation of authority. mechanism through which the delegation of Financial Crime
Risk authorities is made. The Group Head, CFCC is the Risk
Mitigation Framework Owner for Financial Crime Risk under the Group’s
Enterprise Risk Management Framework. Certain aspects
There are four Group policies in support of the Financial Crime
of Financial Crime Compliance, second-line oversight and
Risk Type Framework:
challenge, are delegated within the CFCC function. Approval
• Group Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy frameworks are in place to allow for risk-based decisions on
client onboarding, potential breaches of sanctions regulation
• Group Anti-Money Laundering and Counter Terrorist
or policy, situations of potential money laundering (and
Financing Policy
terrorist financing), bribery and corruption or internal and
• Group Sanctions Policy external fraud.
• Group Fraud Risk Management Policy.
Monitoring
The Group operates risk-based assessments and controls
The Group monitors Financial Crime Risk compliance against
in support of its Financial Crime Risk programme, including
a set of Risk Appetite metrics that are approved by the
(but not limited to):
Board. These metrics are reviewed periodically and reported
• Group Risk Assessment - the Group monitors enterprise- regularly to the Group Financial Crime Risk Committee,
wide Financial Crime Risks through the CFCC Risk Group Non-Financial Risk Committee, Board and Group Risk
Assessment process consisting of Financial Crime Risk and Committees, and Board Audit Committee.
Compliance Risk assessments. The Financial Crime Risk
assessment is a Group-wide risk assessment undertaken Stress testing
annually to assess the inherent Financial Crime Risk The assessment of Financial Crime vulnerabilities under
exposures and the associated processes and controls by stressed conditions or extreme events with a low likelihood of
which these exposures are mitigated. occurring is carried out through enterprise stress testing where
scenario analysis is used to assess capital requirements for
• Financial Crime Surveillance – risk-based systems and
Financial Crime Risk as part of the overall scenario analysis
processes to prevent and detect financial crime.
portfolio managed under the Operational and Technology
The strength of controls is tested and assessed through the Risk Type Framework. Specific scenarios are developed
Group’s Operational and Technology Risk Type Framework, annually with collaboration between the business, which
in addition to oversight by CFCC Assurance. owns and manages the risk, and the CFCC function, which is
second line to incorporate significant Financial Crime Risk
Governance committee oversight events. This approach considers the impact of extreme but
Financial Crime Risk within the Group is governed by the plausible scenarios on the Group’s Financial Crime Risk profile.
Group Financial Crime Risk Committee (GFCRC) and the
Group Non-Financial Risk Committee (GNFRC) for Fraud
Risk which is appointed by and reports into the Group
Risk Committee.
Risk review Risk management approach
Model Risk
The Group defines Model Risk as potential loss that Risk Appetite Statement
may occur as a consequence of decisions or the risk of The Group has no appetite for material adverse
mis-estimation that could be principally based on the implications arising from misuse of models or errors
in the development or implementation of models;
output of models, due to errors in the development,
whilst accepting model uncertainty.
implementation or use of such models.
Roles and responsibilities and for any other specific local regulatory requirements at the
country or legal entity level. GMV will take into consideration
The Global Head, Enterprise Risk Management is the Risk
any country or legal entity specific considerations when
Framework Owner for Model Risk under the Group’s Enterprise
validating a model, the model would be endorsed at Group
Risk Management Framework. Responsibility for the oversight
level and then approved for use in the country or legal entity
and implementation of the Model Risk Type Framework is
via the local governance process.
delegated to the Global Head, Model Risk Management.
The Model Risk Type Framework sets out clear accountability Mitigation
and roles for Model Risk management through a Three Lines
The Model Risk policy and standards define requirements
of Defence model. First-line ownership of Model Risk resides
for model development and validation activities, including
with Model Sponsors, who are business or function heads and
regular model performance monitoring. Any model issues
assign a Model Owner for each model and provide oversight
or deficiencies identified through the validation process are
of Model Owner activities. Model Owners are the accountable
mitigated through the application of model monitoring,
executive for the model development process, represent
model overlays and/or a model redevelopment plan, which
model users, and are responsible for the overall model design
undergo robust review, challenge and approval. Operational
process including engagement with Model Users to solicit
controls govern all Model Risk-related processes, with regular
feedback on the proposed model solution. Model Owners
risk assessments performed to assess appropriateness and
also coordinate the submission of models for validation and
effectiveness of those controls, in line with the Operational
approval and ensure appropriate model implementation and
and Technology Risk Type Framework, with remediation plans
use. Model Developers are responsible for the development
implemented where necessary.
of models, acting as a delegate of the Model Owner, and
are responsible for documenting and testing the model in
Governance committee oversight
accordance with Policy requirements, and for engaging with
Model Users as part of the development process. Second-line At Board level, the Board Risk Committee exercises oversight
oversight is provided by Model Risk Management, which of Model Risk within the Group. At the executive level, the
comprises Group Model Validation (GMV) and Model Risk Group Risk Committee has appointed the Model Risk
Policy and Governance. Committee to ensure effective measurement and
management of Model Risk. Sub-committees such as the
The Group adopts an industry standard model definition as Credit Model Assessment Committee, Traded Risk Model
specified in the Group Model Risk Policy, together with a scope Assessment Committee and Financial Crime Compliance
of applicability represented by defined model family types Model Assessment Committee oversee their respective
as detailed within the Model Risk Type Framework. Model in-scope models and escalate material Model Risks to the
Owners are accountable for ensuring that all models under Model Risk Committee. In parallel, business and function-level
their purview have been independently validated by GMV. risk committees provide governance oversight of the models
Models must be validated before use and then on an ongoing used in their respective processes.
basis, with schedule determined by the perceived level of
model risk associated with the model, or more frequently if
Decision-making authorities and delegation
there are specific regulatory requirements.
The Model Risk Type Framework is the formal mechanism
GMV independently reviews and grades models, in line through which the delegation of Model Risk authorities
with design objectives, business uses and compliance is made.
requirements, and highlights identified model risks by raising
The Global Head, Enterprise Risk Management delegates
model related issues. The Model Risk Policy and Governance
authorities to designated individuals or Policy Owners through
team provides oversight of Model Risk activities, performing
the RTF. The second-line ownership for Model Risk at country
regular Model Risk Assessment and risk profile reporting to
level is delegated to Country Chief Risk Officers at the
senior management.
applicable branches and subsidiaries.
For countries or legal entities that are in scope of the Model
The Model Risk Committee is responsible for approving
Risk Type Framework, the Group Model Risk Policy specifies
models for use. Model approval authority is also delegated to
the Country Model Risk Framework Owner, delegated to the
the Credit Model Assessment Committee, Traded Risk Model
Country Chief Risk Officer, as accountable for ensuring model
Assessment Committee, Financial Crime Compliance Model
usage is correctly identified within the country or legal entity
Assessment Committee and individual designated model
and a suitable local governance process is established to
approvers for less material models.
accommodate models requiring local regulatory approval
312 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Risk review Risk management approach
Reputational and Sustainability Risk
The Group defines Reputational and Sustainability Risk Appetite Statement
Risk as the potential for damage to the franchise (such The Group aims to protect the franchise from
as loss of trust, earnings, or market capitalisation), material damage to its reputation by ensuring that
any business activity is satisfactorily assessed and
because of stakeholders taking a negative view of
managed by the appropriate level of
the Group through actual or perceived actions or
management and governance oversight. This
inactions, including a failure to uphold responsible includes a potential failure to uphold responsible
business conduct or lapses in our commitment to do no business conduct or lapses in our commitment to
do no significant environmental and social harm.
significant environmental and social harm through our
client, third-party relationships or our own operations.
Reputational and Sustainability Risk continues to be an for pan-bank sustainable finance products and frameworks
area of growing importance, driving a need for strategic to help identify green and sustainable finance and transition
transformation across business activities and risk finance opportunities to aid our clients on their sustainability
management to ensure that we uphold the principles of journey. Furthermore, the Environmental and Social Risk
Responsible Business Conduct and continue to do the right Management team (ESRM) provides dedicated advisory
thing for our stakeholders, the environment and affected and challenge to businesses on the management of
communities. Our policy frameworks and Position Statements environmental and social risks and impacts arising from
integrate our values into our core working practices by the Group’s client relationships and transactions.
articulating our approach to clients in sensitive sectors and
our commitments to climate change and human rights. We Mitigation
continue to progress on our transformation agenda, driving In line with the principles of Responsible Business Conduct and
the Bank’s Net Zero commitments and building a leading Do No Significant Harm, the Group deems Reputational and
sustainable franchise. Our progress to date includes the Sustainability Risk to be driven by:
setting of public Net Zero targets, leadership in voluntary
carbon markets, and ongoing support of innovation in green, • negative shifts in stakeholder perceptions, including shifts
transition, and social finance. as a result of greenwashing claims, due to decisions related
to clients, products, transactions, third parties and
The growth of Sustainable Finance products offering across strategic coverage
the banking industry has prompted stronger and more robust
regulations to prevent greenwashing. We are moving quickly • potential material harm or degradation to the natural
to integrate anti-greenwashing policies, standards and environment (environmental) through actions/inactions
controls into our risk management activities. As we prepare of the Group
for the varying regulatory developments across our footprint, • potential material harm to individuals or communities
we continue to invest in data and infrastructure to reinforce (social) risks through actions/inactions of the Group.
our compliance efforts and are actively engaging with several
of our regulatory supervisors. In 2022, we have increased our The Group’s Reputational Risk policy sets out the principal
capabilities in horizon scanning and focused on developing sources of Reputational Risk driven by negative shifts in
an effective operating model to manage regulatory change stakeholder perceptions as well as responsibilities, control and
to bolster our efforts to systematically track emerging risks oversight standards for identifying, assessing, escalating and
across our business operations and supply chains. effectively managing Reputational Risk. The Group takes a
structured approach to the assessment of risks associated
Roles and responsibilities with how individual client, transaction, product and
strategic coverage decisions may affect perceptions of the
The Global Head, Enterprise Risk Management is the Risk
organisation and its activities, based on explicit principles
Framework Owner for Reputational and Sustainability Risk
including, but not limited to human rights, gambling, defence
under the Group’s Enterprise Risk Management Framework.
and dual use goods. Whenever potential for stakeholder
The responsibility for Reputational and Sustainability Risk concerns is identified, issues are subject to prior approval by a
management is delegated to Reputational and Sustainability management authority commensurate with the materiality
Risk Leads in ERM as well as Chief Risk Officers at region, of matters being considered. Such authorities may accept
country and client-business levels. They constitute the second or decline the risk or impose conditions upon proposals, to
line of defence, overseeing and challenging the first line of protect the Group’s reputation. In 2022, the Reputational Risk
defence, which resides with the Chief Executive Officers, Policy was enhanced to include more rigorous assessment
Business Heads, Product Heads and Function Heads in of clients operating in sectors which have heightened
respect of risk management activities of reputational and climate risk.
sustainability-related risks respectively.
The Group’s Sustainability Risk policy sets out the requirements
In the first line of defence, we have in 2022 appointed a Chief and responsibilities for managing environmental and social
Sustainability Officer (“CSO”) whose remit spans across both risks for the Group’s clients, third parties and in our own
Sustainability strategy and client solutions. Reporting to the operations, as guided by various industry standards such as
CSO is our Sustainability Strategy team, who manages the the OECD’s Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Business
overall Group Sustainability strategy and engagement. On Conduct, Equator Principles, UN Sustainable Development
client solutions, the Sustainable Finance team is responsible Goals and the Paris Agreement.
314 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 315
Risk
review
and
Capital
review
• Clients are expected to adhere to minimum regulatory and • Reviewing the reputational risks arising from greenwashing
compliance requirements, including criteria from the Group’s claims related to Sustainable Finance products and services.
Position Statements. In 2022, the Sustainability Risk Policy
The Group Non-Financial Risk Committee has oversight of
was enhanced to include the monitoring of inherent risks
the control environment and effective management of
related to Sustainable Finance products and transactions
Reputational Risk incurred when there are negative shifts in
and clients throughout their lifecycle - from labelling to
stakeholder perceptions of the Group due to failure of other
disclosures.
PRTs. The regional and client-business risk committees provide
• Third parties such as suppliers must comply with the Group’s oversight on the Reputational and Sustainability Risk profile
Supplier Charter which sets out the Group’s expectations within their remit. The Country Non-Financial Risk Committee
on ethics, anti-bribery and corruption, human rights, (CNFRC) provides oversight of the Reputational and
environmental, health and safety standards, labour and Sustainability Risk profile at a country level.
protection of the environment.
Decision-making authorities and delegation
• Within our operations, the Group seeks to minimise its
impact on the environment and have targets to reduce The Reputational and Sustainability RTF is the formal
energy, water and waste. mechanism through which the delegation of Reputational
and Sustainability Risk authorities is made. The Global Head,
Reputational and Sustainability Risk policies and standards Enterprise Risk Management delegates risk acceptance
are applicable to all Group entities. However, local regulators authorities for stakeholder perception risks to designated
in some markets may impose additional requirements on how individuals in the first line and second line or to committees
banks manage and track Reputational and Sustainability Risk. such as the GRRRC via risk authority matrices.
In such cases, these are complied with in addition to Group
policies and standards. These risk authority matrices are tiered at country, regional,
business segment or Group levels and are established for
Governance committee oversight risks incurred in strategic coverage, clients, products or
transactions. For environmental and social risks, the ESRM
At Board level, the Culture and Sustainability Committee
team must review and support the risk assessments for clients
provides oversight for our Sustainability strategy while
and transactions and escalate to the Reputational and
the Board Risk Committee oversees Reputational and
Sustainability Risk leads as required.
Sustainability Risk as part of the ERMF. The Group Risk
Committee (GRC) provides executive-level committee
Monitoring
oversight and delegates the authority to ensure effective
management of Reputational and Sustainability Risk Exposure to stakeholder perception risks arising from
to the Group Responsibility and Reputational Risk transactions, clients, products and strategic coverage are
Committee (GRRRC). monitored through established triggers outlined in risk
materiality matrices to prompt the right levels of risk-based
The GRRRC’s remit is to: consideration by the first line and escalations to the second
• Challenge, constrain and, if required, stop business activities line where necessary. Risk acceptance decisions and thematic
where Reputational and Sustainability risks are not aligned trends are also being reviewed on a periodic basis.
with the Group’s Risk Appetite. Exposure to Sustainability Risk is monitored through triggers
• Make decisions on Reputational and Sustainability Risk embedded within the first-line processes where environmental
matters assessed as high or very high based on the and social risks are considered for clients and transactions
Group’s Reputational and Sustainability Risk materiality via the Environmental and Social Risk Assessments and
assessment matrix, and matters escalated from the regions considered for vendors in our supply chain through the
or client businesses. Modern Slavery questionnaires.
• Provide oversight of material Reputational and Furthermore, monitoring and reporting on the risk appetite
Sustainability Risk and/or thematic issues arising from metrics ensures that there is appropriate oversight by
the potential failure of other risk types. Management Team and Board over performance and
breaches of thresholds across key metrices namely in
• Identify topical and emerging risks, as part of a dynamic risk concentration of material reputational risk, level of
scanning process alignment with Group’s Net Zero aspirations and Position
• Monitor existing or new regulatory priorities Statements, and modern slavery risks in our suppliers.
The Sustainable Finance Governance Committee, appointed
Stress testing
by the GRRRC provides leadership, governance and oversight
Reputational Risk outcomes are taken into account in
for delivering the Group’s sustainable finance offering.
enterprise stress tests and incorporated into the Group’s
This includes:
stress testing scenarios. For example, the Group might
• Reviewing and supporting the Group’s frameworks for consider what impact a hypothetical event leading to loss of
Green and Sustainable Products, and Transition Finance confidence among liquidity providers in a particular market
for approval of GRRRC. These frameworks set out the might have, or what the implications might be for supporting
guidelines for approval of products and transactions part of the organization in order to protect the brand. As
which carry the sustainable finance and/or transition Sustainability Risk continues to evolve as an area of emerging
finance label. regulatory focus with various markets developing ESG
regulatory guidance, we are keeping pace with external
• Decision-making authority on the eligibility of a sustainable
developments to enable us to explore meaningful scenario
asset for any risk-weighted assets (RWA) relief.
analysis in the future with the aim of advancing Reputational
• Approving sustainable finance and transition finance labels and Sustainability Risk management.
for products in addition to regular product management
and governance
Risk review Risk management approach
Climate Risk
The Group recognises Climate Risk as an Integrated Risk Appetite Statement
Risk Type. Climate Risk is defined as the potential for The Group aims to measure and manage financial
financial loss and non-financial detriments arising and non-financial risks from climate change, and
reduce emissions related to our own activities and
from climate change and society’s response to it.
those related to the financing of clients in
alignment with the Paris Agreement.
Climate Risk has been recognised as an emerging risk since Governance committee oversight
2017 and was elevated to an Integrated Risk Type (previously Board-level oversight is exercised through the Board Risk
known as material cross-cutting risk) within the ERMF, our Committee (BRC), and regular Climate Risk updates are
central risk framework in 2019. We have made further progress provided to the Board and BRC. At an executive level, the
this year in embedding Climate risk considerations across the Group Risk Committee (GRC) oversees implementation of
impacted PRTs and by using the results from our management the Climate Risk workplan. The GRC has also appointed a
scenario analysis, we are building a good understanding of Climate Risk Management Committee consisting of senior
the markets and industries where the effects of climate representatives from the Business, Risk, Strategy and other
change will have the greatest impact. However, it is still a functions such as Compliance, Audit and Finance. The Climate
relatively nascent risk area which will mature and develop Risk Management Committee meets at least six times a year
over time, particularly as data availability improves. to oversee the implementation of Climate Risk workplan
and progress in meeting regulatory requirements, monitor
Roles and responsibilities the Climate Risk profile of the Group and review Climate
The three lines of defence model as per the Enterprise Risk Risk-related disclosures and stress tests. We have also
Management Framework applies to Climate Risk. The GCRO strengthened country and regional governance oversight
has the ultimate second-line and senior management for the Climate Risk profile across our key markets in 2022.
responsibility for Climate Risk. The GCRO is supported by the
Global Head, Enterprise Risk Management who has day-to- Tools and methodologies
day oversight and central responsibility for second-line Applying existing risk management tools to quantify Climate
Climate Risk activities. As Climate Risk is integrated into the Risk is challenging given inherent data and methodology
relevant PRTs, second-line responsibilities lie with the Risk challenges, including the need to be forward-looking over
Framework Owner (at Group, regional and country level), long time horizons. To quantify climate physical and transition
with subject matter expertise support from the central risk we leverage and have invested in a number of areas,
Climate Risk team. including tools and partnerships:
Mitigation • Munich Re – we are using Munich Re’s physical risk
assessment tool, which is built on extensive re-insurance
As an Integrated Risk Type manifests through other PRTs,
experience.
risk mitigation activities are specific to individual PRTs. The
Group has made progress to integrate Climate Risk into PRT • Baringa Partners – we are using Baringa’s flagship climate
processes. Climate Risk assessments are considered as part of models to understand climate scenarios, and compute
Reputational and Sustainability transaction reviews for clients transition risk and temperature alignment.
and transactions in high carbon sectors. We have directly
• Standard & Poor – we are leveraging S&P and Trucost’s
engaged with clients on their adaptation and mitigation
plans using client level Climate Risk questionnaires and wealth of climate data covering asset locations, energy
integrated climate risk into the credit process for ~70% of our mixes and emissions.
corporate client exposure in CCIB. As part of quarterly credit • Imperial College – we are leveraging Imperial’s academic
portfolio reviews in CPBB, physical risk assessments for the
expertise to advance our understanding of climate science,
residential mortgage portfolios are also being monitored for
upskill our staff and senior management, and
concentration levels.
• progress the state of independent research on climate risks
The Traded Risk stress testing framework covers market
with an acute focus on emerging markets.
impacts from Climate Risk – this includes a transition risk
and two physical risk scenarios. Physical and transition risk • Deloitte – we are working with Deloitte to build internal
ratings for sovereigns are widely used across the Group for IFRS9 and stress testing models.
risk management and reporting purposes.
Decision-making authorities and delegation
The focus for Operational and Technology Risk was originally
on Property, Resilience and Third-Party Risk management, and The Global Head, Enterprise Risk Management is supported
is now being expanded to material technology arrangements. by a centralised Climate Risk team within the ERM function.
We have also completed liquidity risk assessments for our The Global Head, Climate Risk and Net Zero Oversight is
top liquidity providers. Relevant policies and standards responsible for ensuring and executing the delivery of the
across PRTs have been updated to factor in Climate Risk Climate Risk workplan which will define decision-making
considerations and a focus area for 2022 was to build out authorities and delegations across the Group.
our risk management, data and modelling capabilities.
316 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 317
Risk
review
and
Capital
review
Monitoring
The Climate Risk Appetite Statement is approved
and reviewed annually by the Board, following the
recommendation of the Board Risk Committee.
The PLC Group has developed its first-generation Climate
Risk reporting and Board/Management Team Level Risk
Appetite metrics and this will continue to be enhanced in
2023. Management information and Risk Appetite metrics
are also being progressively rolled out at the regional and
country level.
Stress testing
As Climate Risk intensifies over time, the future global
temperature rise will depend on today’s transition pathway.
Considering different transition scenarios is crucial to
assessing Climate Risk over the next 10, 20 and 50 years.
Stress testing and scenario analysis are used to assess capital
requirements for Climate Risk and since 2020 physical and
transition risks have been included in the PLC Group Internal
Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP). In 2022, the
PLC Group undertook a number of Climate Risk stress tests,
including by the Monetary Authority of Singapore and
internal management scenario analysis. We will rely on these
stress tests to understand the Group level vulnerabilities
given the significant overlap between SC Bank and PLC
Group’s activities.
In 2023, the PLC Group intends to extend its management
scenario capabilities, which will strengthen business strategy
and financial planning and support the PLC Group’s net
zero journey.
Risk review Risk management approach
Digital Assets Risk
The Group recognises Digital Assets Risk as an Risk Appetite Statement
Integrated Risk Type. Digital Assets Risk is defined as As Digital Assets Risk manifests through the various
the potential for regulatory penalties, financial loss PRTs, the specific Risk Appetite statements for the
PRTs apply.
and/or reputational damage to the Group resulting
from digital assets exposure or digital assets related
activities arising from the Group’s Clients, Products
and Projects.
Digital Assets (DA) Risk has been managed under the Digital Governance committee oversight
Assets Risk Management Approach since 2020 and was Board-level oversight is exercised through the Board Risk
formalised as an Integrated Risk Type (previously known Committee (BRC), and DA Risk updates are provided to the
as material cross cutting risk) within the Enterprise Risk Board and BRC, as requested. At the executive level, the
Management Framework (ERMF). Digital Assets Risk follows Group Risk Committee (GRC) oversees the risk management
the prescribed robust risk management practices across of DA. The GCRO has also appointed a dedicated Digital
the PRTs, with specific expertise applied from Digital Assets Assets Risk Committee (DRC) consisting of senior
experts. Risk management practices take guidance from the representatives, RFOs and SMEs across the Group including
“Dear CEO” letters published by the Prudential Regulatory the business, risk, and other functions such as legal. The DRC
Authority and the Financial Conduct Authority in June 2018, meets at the pre-defined frequency, a minimum of four times
with updated notices in June 2022. This is a developing per year, to review and assess the detailed risk assessments
risk area which will mature and stabilise over time as related to DA Projects and Products, discuss development and
the technology and associated research becomes implementation of the DA risk management, and to provide
more established. structured governance around DA.
Roles and responsibilities Decision-making authorities and delegation
The three lines of defence model defined in the ERMF applies The Global Head, Enterprise Risk Management is supported
to Digital Assets Risk. The GCRO has the second-line and by a centralised DA team within the ERM function and is
senior management responsibility for Digital Assets Risk with responsible for the DA framework. The respective PRT RFOs
respect to the framework. The respective Business Segments and SMEs utilise decision making authorities granted to them
Senior Managers are responsible for the overall management within their respective PRTs or in individual capacities.
of Digital Assets initiatives within their segments.
The GCRO is supported by the Global Head, Enterprise Risk Monitoring
Management and the Global Head, Digital Assets Risk Digital Assets are monitored through the existing Group Risk
Management who have day-to-day oversight and central Appetite metrics across the PRTs. In addition, specific Digital
responsibility for second line Digital Assets Risk activities. Assets Risk Appetite metrics are approved and reviewed
As Digital Assets Risk is integrated into the relevant PRTs, annually by GRC. DA decisions relating to other PRTs are taken
Risk Framework Owners (RFOs) and dedicated Subject within the authorities for the respective PRT.
Matter Experts (SMEs) across the PRTs also have second line
responsibilities for Digital Assets Risk. Stress testing
Stress testing and scenario analysis are used to help assess
Mitigation
capital requirements for Digital Assets Risk and form part of
The Group deploys a DA specific policy to outline incremental the overall scenario analysis portfolio managed under the
risk management requirements for DA related activities. The Operational and Technology Risk Type Framework. Specific
Group’s policies for other PRTs also include DA requirements scenarios are developed annually with collaboration between
where relevant Risk mitigation activities are also specific to the business, which owns and manages the risk, and the DA
individual PRTs and the Group has undertaken development Risk function, to consider relevant DA scenarios. This approach
and integration of Digital Assets Risk into the PRT processes. considers the impact of extreme but plausible scenarios on
Digital Assets Risk Assessments are conducted on certain the PLC Group’s capital profile with respect to DA.
higher-risk DA related Projects and Products. These specific
risk assessments detail the specific inherent risks, residual risks,
controls and mitigants across the PRTs and are reviewed and
supported by the respective RFOs and DA SMEs.
318 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 319
Risk
review
and
Capital
review
Third Party Risk
The Group recognises Third Party Risk as an Risk Appetite Statement
Integrated Risk Type. Third Party Risk is defined as This IRT is supported by Risk Appetite metrics
the potential for loss or adverse impact from failure embedded within relevant PRTs. The engagement
of Third Parties is essential for the Group to operate
to manage multiple risks arising from the use of
efficiently and effectively. This may introduce
Third Parties, and is the aggregate of these risks.
incremental risks which, if not managed correctly,
could result in regulatory non-compliance,
financial loss and/or adverse impact to clients.
We continue to enhance our policies, standards,
processes and controls to ensure we safely
manage any incremental risks introduced by
the use of Third Parties.
Roles and Responsibilities The management of Third Party Risk is overseen at a Country
The Global Head of Risk, Functions and Operational Risk or entity level by the Country Third Party Risk Management
has second line oversight responsibility for Third Party Risk Committee (CTPRMC). In smaller markets the responsibilities
as defined in the Enterprise Risk Management Framework. are exercised directly by the Executive Risk Committee (for
The three lines of defence model applies to Third Party Risk, subsidiaries) or Country Risk Committee (for branches).
and roles and responsibilities are further defined in the Third
Party Risk Management Policy and Standard. It is important to Decision Making Authorities and Delegation
note that as an Integrated Risk Type, the risks associated with The Group Chief Risk Officer has second line responsibility
the management of Third Parties materialise across multiple for Third Party Risk under the Senior Managers Regime.
PRTs. The Risk Framework Owners for the PRTs are therefore The Group Chief Risk Officer has delegated the Integrated
responsible for embedding requirements to manage Third Risk Framework Owner responsibilities associated with
Party Risk within their Risk Type Frameworks, Policies and Third Party Risk to the Global Head of Risk, Functions and
Standards as appropriate, and ensuring compliance to the Operational Risk, through the Enterprise Risk Management
minimum requirements defined by the Global Head of Risk, Framework. Second line oversight and challenge
Functions and Operational Risk. responsibilities for Third Party Risk at a Country or entity
level are delegated to the Country Chief Risk Officers.
Mitigation
To ensure we continue to prioritise the engagement of Third Monitoring
Parties, while safely managing any risks, the Third Party Risk The monitoring of Third Party Risk within the Group’s Process
Management Policy and Standard, in conjunction with the Universe is managed in accordance with the Operational and
PRT Policies and Standards, holistically set out the Group’s Technology Risk Type Framework.
minimum controls requirements for the identification,
The Third Party Risk management profile is reported to the
mitigation and management of risks arising from the use
GTPRMC, and includes the monitoring and oversight on Risk
of Third Parties. These minimum control requirements have
Appetite, assessment of new Third Party arrangements,
been enhanced in 2022 to ensure compliance with new
on-going performance monitoring of Third Party
requirements issued by our regulators.
arrangements, internal and external events and elevated
The Group aims to manage its risk profile within Risk Appetite, risks with appropriate treatment plans.
and in order to do so, Risk Appetite metrics for Third Party
Risk are embedded within the respective PRTs including Stress Testing
ICS, Compliance, Financial Crime and Operational and Stress testing and scenario analysis are used to assess capital
Technology Risk. To further supplement this, additional requirements, and for Third Party Risk, form part of the overall
work is underway to enhance the Group’s approach to scenario analysis portfolio managed under the Operational
concentration risk. Where appropriate, Risk Appetite metrics and Technology Risk Type Framework. Specific scenarios are
are cascaded to countries. developed annually with collaboration between the business,
which owns and manages the risk, and the second line of
Governance Committee Oversight defence. This approach considers the impact of extreme but
At the Board level, the Board Risk Committee oversees the plausible scenarios on the Group’s Risk profile.
effective management of Third Party Risk. At the executive
level, the Group Risk Committee is responsible for the
governance and oversight of Third Party Risk for the Group.
The Group Third Party Risk Management Committee
(GTPRMC), established under the Group Non-Financial Risk
Committee, is responsible for overseeing all Third Party Risk
types and associated risks across the Group, as well as
the effective embedding of Third Party Risk across the
respective PRTs.
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 329
Financial
statements
In relation to the Group and Company’s reporting on how they Of the 26 components selected in 21 countries, we performed
have applied the UK Corporate Governance Code, we have an audit of the complete financial information of 15
nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to components in 12 countries (‘full scope components’) which
the directors’ statement in the financial statements about were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
whether the directors considered it appropriate to adopt the For the remaining 11 components in 9 countries (‘specific scope
going concern basis of accounting. components’), we performed audit procedures on specific
accounts within that component that we considered had
Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors
the potential for the greatest impact on the Group financial
with respect to going concern are described in the relevant
statements either because of the size of these accounts or
sections of this report. However, because not all future
their risk profile.
events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is
not a guarantee as to the Group’s ability to continue as a The reporting components where we performed audit
going concern. procedures accounted for 82% (2021: 81%) of the Group’s
absolute adjusted PBT, 89% (2021: 89%) of the Group’s
Overview of our audit approach absolute operating income and 95% (2021: 96%) of the
Group’s total assets. For the current year, the full scope
Audit scope • We performed an audit of the complete financial
components contributed 72% (2021: 74%) of the Group’s
information of 15 components in 12 countries
absolute adjusted PBT, 79% (2021: 81%) of the Group’s
and audit procedures on specific balances for
absolute operating income and 87% (2021: 88%) of the
a further 11 components in 9 countries.
Group’s total assets.
• The components where we performed full or
specific audit procedures accounted for 82% of The specific scope components contributed 10% (2021: 7%)
the absolute adjusted profit before tax (PBT)
of the Group’s absolute adjusted PBT, 10% (2021: 8%) of the
measure used to calculate materiality, 89%
Group’s absolute operating income and 8% (2021: 8%) of the
of absolute operating income and 95% of
Group’s total assets. The audit scope of these components
Total assets.
may not have included testing of all significant accounts of
Key audit • Credit impairment
the component but will have contributed to the coverage of
matters • Basis of accounting and impairment assessment
significant accounts tested for the Group, overall.
of China Bohai Bank (Interest in Associate)
• User Access Management – Privileged Access Of the remaining 303 reporting units that together represent
Management 18% of the Group’s absolute adjusted PBT, none individually
• Impairment of Goodwill and Investments in contributed more than 2% of the Group’s absolute adjusted
subsidiary undertakings PBT. For the components represented by these reporting
• Valuation of financial instruments held at units, we performed other procedures at the Group level
fair value with higher risk characteristics which included: performing analytical reviews at the Group
Materiality • Overall group materiality of $234m which financial statement line item level, testing entity level controls,
represents 5% of adjusted PBT performing audit procedures on the centralised shared service
centres, testing of consolidation journals and intercompany
An overview of the scope of the Parent Company eliminations, inquiring with overseas EY teams on the
outcome of prior year local statutory audits (where audited by
and Group audits
EY) to identify any potential risks of material misstatement to
Tailoring the scope the Group financial statements.
Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and The charts below illustrate the coverage obtained from the
our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit work performed by our audit teams.
scope for each component within the Group. Taken together,
Absolute adjusted profit before tax
this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated
financial statements. We took into account the size, risk 72% Full scope components
profile, the organisation of the Group and effectiveness of
10% Specific scope components
control environment, changes in the business environment
and other factors such as the level of issues and 18% Other procedures
misstatements noted in prior period when assessing the level
of work to be performed at each component.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the
Absolute operating income
consolidated financial statements, and to ensure we had
adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the 79% Full scope components
financial statements, of the 367 reporting units of the Group,
10% Specific scope components
we selected 64 reporting units which represent 26
components in 21 countries: Bangladesh, Cameroon, Hong 11% Other procedures
Kong, India, Indonesia, Japan, Kenya, Mainland China,
Malaysia, Nigeria, Pakistan, Republic of Ireland, Republic of
South Africa, Singapore, South Korea, Sri Lanka, Taiwan,
United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom, United States of Total assets
America and Zambia. The definition of a component is
aligned with the structure of the Group’s consolidation system, 87% Full scope components
typically these are either a branch, group of branches, group 8% Specific scope components
of subsidiaries, a subsidiary, or an associate.
5% Other procedures
We took a centralised approach to auditing certain processes
and controls, as well as the substantive testing of specific
balances. This included audit work over Group’s Global
Business Services shared services centre, Commercial,
Corporate and Institutional Banking, Credit Impairment
and Technology.
Financial statements Independent auditor’s report
Changes from the prior year These visits involved oversight of work undertaken at those
We assessed our 2022 audit scope with consideration of locations, discussion of the audit approach and any issues
history or expectation of unusual or complex transactions and arising from their work, meeting with local management, and
potential for material misstatements. We also kept our audit reviewing relevant audit working papers on key risk areas.
scope under review throughout the year.
In addition to the site visits, the Primary Audit Team interacted
One component (Germany) which was included in our prior regularly with the component and shared services centre
year audit scope and assigned full scope, which represents audit teams where appropriate during the audit, reviewed
0.03% (2021:0.4%) of the current year absolute adjusted PBT, relevant working papers remotely and were responsible for
1.3% of the Group’s total assets (2021:1%) and 0.6% of the the overall scoping and direction of the audit process.
Group’s absolute operating income (2021:0.8%), was excluded
The programme of our visits to component team and shared
from the Group audit scope in the current year based on our
service centres located in China was impacted by the travel
updated risk assessment. For this component as well as
restrictions and other imposed government measures which
Philippines, Uganda and Jordan, the Primary Audit Team
are still in place from the prior year as a result of the ongoing
performed certain procedures centrally over the cash
COVID-19 pandemic (albeit less so when compared to the
balances as at 31 December 2022. Nigeria and Bangladesh
prior year). For this location, oversight of the work was
were full scope components in the prior year but were
performed remotely through established EY software
designated as specific scope components in the current
collaboration platforms for the secure and timely delivery
year based on our updated risk assessment.
of requested audit evidence.
In 2022 we assigned a specific scope to Cameroon, South
We also undertook video conference meetings with local
Africa, Sri Lanka and Zambia components that are significant
audit teams and management. These virtual meetings
based on risk. These components were not in-scope in the
involved discussing the audit approach with the component
prior year.
and shared service centres team and any issues arising
from their work and performing remote reviews of key
Involvement with component teams
audit workpapers.
In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we
determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken This, together with the additional procedures performed at
at each of the components by us, as the Group audit Group level, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on
engagement team, or by component auditors from other the Group and Company financial statements.
EY global network firms and another firm operating under
our instructions. Climate change
Stakeholders are increasingly interested in how climate
Of the 15 full scope components, audit procedures were
change will impact the economy, including the banking sector,
performed on 2 of these (including the audit of the Company)
and further how this may consequently impact the valuation
directly by the Primary Audit Team (EY London) in the
of assets and liabilities held on bank balance sheets. The
United Kingdom. For 2 specific scope components, the audit
Group has determined climate risk to be a Primary Integrated
procedures were performed by the Primary Audit Team.
Risk Type and the assessment of that risk is explained on
Where components were audited by the Primary Team,
pages 316 and 317 in the “Risk review: Climate Risk” section
this was under the direction and supervision of the Senior
and on pages 64 to 123 in the “Sustainability” section of
Statutory Auditor.
the Annual Report, where they have also explained their
For the remaining 22 components, where the work was climate commitments.
performed by component auditors, we determined the
All of these disclosures form part of the “Other information,”
appropriate level of involvement to enable us to determine
rather than the audited financial statements. Our procedures
that sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis
on these unaudited disclosures therefore consisted solely of
for our audit opinion on the Group as a whole. In addition, the
considering whether they are materially inconsistent with the
Group has centralised processes and controls over key areas
financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the course
in its shared service centres. Members of the Primary Audit
of the audit or otherwise appear to be materially misstated,
Team undertook direct oversight, review and coordination
in line with our responsibilities on “Other information”.
of our shared service centre audits.
In planning and performing our audit we assessed the
The Primary Audit Team undertook visits to component teams
potential impacts of climate change on the Group’s
and shared services centres. During the current year’s audit
business and any consequential material impact on its
cycle, visits were undertaken by the Primary Audit Team to the
financial statements.
component teams in the following locations:
The Group has explained in the “Sustainability” section of the
• Bangladesh
Annual Report how they have reflected the impact of climate
• India (including the shared services centre) change in their financial statements, including how this
aligns with their commitment to the aspirations of the Paris
• Hong Kong
Agreement to achieve net zero emissions by 2050. Significant
• Singapore (including the shared services centre) judgements and estimates relating to climate change are
included in the section “Significant accounting estimates and
• Malaysia (including the shared services centre)
critical judgements” of note 1 to the financial statements,
• Indonesia which also provides the narrative explanation of the impact
of climate risk on credit risk and lending portfolios under the
• Republic of Korea
requirements of UK adopted IAS and EU IFRS. As stated in
• United Arab Emirates these disclosures, the Group, having acknowledged the
limitations of current data available, increasing sophistication
• United States of America
of models, and the evolving and nascent nature of climate
impacts on internal and client assets, has concluded
climate risk to have limited quantitative impact in the
immediate term.
330 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 331
Financial
statements
Our audit effort in considering the impact of climate change As part of this evaluation, we performed our own risk
on the financial statements was focused on evaluating assessment, supported by our climate change internal
whether management’s assessment of the impact of climate specialists, to determine the risks of material misstatement
risk, physical and transition, their climate commitments, and in the financial statements from climate change which
the significant judgements and estimates disclosed in note 1 needed to be considered in our audit.
have been appropriately reflected in the valuation of assets
We also challenged the Directors’ considerations of climate
and liabilities, where these can be reliably measured, following
change risks in their assessment of going concern and
the requirements of UK adopted IAS and EU IFRS. This was in
viability, and the associated disclosures. Where considerations
the context of the Group’s process being limited, given that
of climate change were relevant to our assessment of going
this is an emerging area, as a result of limitations in the data
concern, these are described above.
available and the availability of sophisticated models, and
as the Group considers how it further embeds its climate Based on our work, we have considered the impact of climate
ambitions into the planning process. change on the financial statements to impact the key audit
matter of Credit Impairment. Details of our procedures
and findings are included in our explanation of key audit
matters below.
Key audit matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial
statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement (whether or not
due to fraud) that we identified. These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy,
the allocation of resources in the audit; and directing the efforts of the engagement team. These matters were addressed in
the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate
opinion on these matters.
Key observations communicated
Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee
1. Credit Impairment We evaluated the design of controls relevant We highlighted the following
to the Group’s processes over material ECL matters to the Audit Committee:
Refer to the Audit Committee Report (page 164);
Accounting policies (page 361); Note 8 of the balances, including the judgements and • the pathway to achieve a
financial statements; and relevant credit risk estimates noted, involving EY specialists to controls reliance audit for the
disclosures (including pages 239 and 270) assist us in performing our procedures to the Group’s models;
At 31 December 2022, the Group reported total extent it was appropriate. Based on our • our evaluation of
credit impairment balance sheet provision of evaluation we selected the controls upon management’s high-level
$6,075 million (2021: $6,209 million). which we intended to rely and tested those assessment of the potential
for operating effectiveness. impact on ECL from climate
Management’s judgements and estimates
We performed an overall stand-back change;
are especially subjective due to significant
uncertainty associated with the estimation assessment of the ECL allowance levels by • our assessment of the
of expected future losses. Assumptions with stage to determine if they were reasonable assumptions used to determine
increased complexity in respect of the timing by considering the overall credit quality of the the Stage 3 ECL of individual
and measurement of expected credit losses Group’s portfolios, risk profile, the impact of China Commercial Real Estate (ECL) include: sovereign downgrades and the idiosyncratic risk developers and the
of the China CRE sector. Our assessment also management overlay applied
• Staging – the determination of significant included the evaluation of the macroeconomic to the sector’s modelled ECL;
increase in credit risk and resultant timely environment by considering trends in the
allocation of assets to the appropriate stage economies and countries to which the Group • our assessment of the
in accordance with IFRS 9; is exposed, and the consequences of the Group’s enhanced Monte
Carlo approach including
• Model output and adjustments – Accounting easing of global restrictions from the pandemic.
benchmarking the impact of
interpretations, modelling assumptions We performed peer benchmarking where
non-linearity from the baseline
and data used to build and run the models available to assess overall staging and provision
ECL against UK peers and the
that calculate the ECL, including the coverage levels.
non-linearity overlay for retail
appropriateness, completeness and valuation Staging – We evaluated the criteria used to exposures; and
of post-model adjustments applied to model determine significant increase in credit risk
output to address risks not fully captured by including quantitative backstops with the • our assessment of the
the models; resultant allocation of financial assets to appropriateness of the Group’s
methodology used to determine
• Economic scenarios – Significant judgements stage 1, 2 or 3 in accordance with IFRS 9.
the ECL in relation to sovereign
involved with the determination of We reperformed the staging distribution for
downgrades including the
parameters used in the Monte Carlo a sample of financial assets and assessed
completeness and rationale
Simulation and the evaluation of the the reasonableness of staging downgrades
for country downgrades and
appropriateness of the output from the model applied by management.
the resultant overlays and
in terms of the extent to which it adequately To test credit monitoring which largely drives ECL impact.
generated non-linearity, including the the probability of default estimates used in
assessment of any Post Model adjustments; the staging calculation, we challenged the We concluded that
management’s methodology,
• Management overlays – Appropriateness, risk ratings (including appropriate operation
judgements, and assumptions
completeness and valuation of risk event of quantitative backstops) for a sample of
used in calculating credit
overlays to capture risks not identified by performing accounts and other accounts
impairment are materially
the credit impairment models, including the exhibiting risk characteristics such as financial
in accordance with the
consideration of the risk of management difficulties, deferment of payment, late
accounting standard.
override; and payment and watchlist. We also considered
• Individually assessed ECL allowances the vulnerable and cyclical sectors (as defined
– Measurement of individual provisions on page 264 in the annual report).
including the assessment of probability
weighted recovery scenarios, exit strategies,
collateral valuations and time to collect.
Financial statements Independent auditor’s report
Key observations communicated
Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee
5. Valuation of financial instruments We evaluated the design and operating We concluded that assumptions
held at fair value with higher risk effectiveness of controls relating to the used by management to estimate
valuation of financial instruments, including the fair value of financial
characteristics
independent price verification, model review instruments with higher risk
Refer to the Audit Committee Report (page 165); and approval, fair value adjustments, characteristics and the recognition
Accounting policies (page 371); and Note 13 of income statement analysis and reporting. of related income were
the financial statements. Among other procedures, we engaged our reasonable. We highlighted the
At 31 December 2022, the Group reported valuation specialists to assist the audit team following matters to the Audit
financial assets measured at fair value of in performing the following procedures: Committee:
$282,263 million (2021: $303,678 million), and • Test complex model-dependent valuations • Complex model-dependent
financial liabilities at fair value of $149,765 million by independently revaluing a sample of valuations were appropriate
(2021: $138,596 million), of which financial Level 3 and complex Level 2 derivative based on the output of our
assets of $5,865 million (2021: $4,116 million) financial instruments and debt securities in independent revaluations;
and financial liabilities of $1,878 million (2021:
issue, in order to assess the appropriateness • Fair values of derivative
$1,653 million) are classified as Level 3 in the
of models and the adequacy of assumptions transactions, debt securities
fair value hierarchy.
and inputs used by the Group; in issue, unlisted equity
The fair value of financial instruments with • Test valuations of other financial instruments investments, loans, debt and
higher risk characteristics involves the use of with higher estimation uncertainty, such as other financial instruments
management judgement in the selection of unlisted equity investments, loans at fair valued using pricing information
valuation models and techniques, pricing inputs value, debt and other financial instruments. with limited observability were
and assumptions and fair value adjustments. We compared management’s valuation to not materially misstated as at
A higher level of estimation uncertainty is our own independently developed range, 31 December 2022, based on
involved for financial instruments valued using where appropriate; the output of our independent
complex models, pricing inputs that have • Assessed the appropriateness of pricing calculations; and
limited observability, and fair value adjustments, inputs as part of the Independent Price • Valuation adjustments in
including the Credit Valuation Adjustment, Verification process; and respect of credit, funding, own
Funding Valuation Adjustment, Debit Valuation • Compared the methodology used for credit and other risks applied to
Adjustment and Own Credit Adjustment. fair value adjustments to current market derivative portfolios and debt
We considered the following portfolios practice. We revalued a sample of valuation securities in issue were
presented a higher level of estimation adjustments, compared funding and appropriate, based on our
uncertainty: credit spreads to third party data and analysis of market data and
• Level 3 derivatives and debt securities in issue challenged the basis for determining illiquid benchmarking of pricing
and a portfolio of Level 2 financial instruments credit spreads. information.
whose valuation involves the use of complex
Where differences between our independent
models, and
valuation and management’s valuation were
• Unlisted equity investments, loans at fair outside our thresholds, we performed additional
value, debt and other financial instruments testing to assess the impact on the valuation of
classified in Level 3 with unobservable financial instruments.
pricing inputs.
Throughout our audit procedures we
The level of risk remains consistent with the considered the continuing uncertainty arising
prior year. from the current macro-economic environment
including market volatility. In addition, we
assessed whether there were any indicators
of aggregate bias in financial instrument
marking and methodology assumptions.
The key audit matters remain consistent from prior year, We determined materiality for the Group to be $234 million
except that following the decline of the Covid-19 pandemic (2021: $195 million), which is 5% (2021: 5%) of adjusted PBT. This
and the associated decrease in related uncertainties, the key reflects actual PBT adjusted for non-recurring items relating
audit matter in respect of the impairment of non-financial to restructuring costs and impairment of China Bohai Bank.
assets has become limited to the impairment assessment We believe that adjusted PBT provides us with the most
of goodwill and investments in subsidiary undertakings. appropriate measure for the users of the financial statements,
given the Group is profit making, it is consistent with the wider
Our application of materiality industry, it is the standard for listed and regulated entities
We apply the concept of materiality in planning and and we believe it reflects the most relevant measure for
performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified users of the financial statements. We also believe that the
misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion. adjustments are appropriate as they relate to material
non-recurring items.
Materiality
The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that,
individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be
expected to influence the economic decisions of the users
of the financial statements. Materiality provides a basis for
determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
336 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 337
Financial
statements
Reporting threshold
Starting basis
An amount below which identified misstatements are
considered as being clearly trivial.
• Statutory profit before tax – $4,286m We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to
them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of $11 million
(2021: $10 million), which is set at 5% of planning materiality,
as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view,
warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Adjustments When forming our opinion, we evaluate any uncorrected
misstatements against both the quantitative measures of
materiality discussed above as well as other relevant
• Restructuring – $95m qualitative criteria.
• China Bohai bank impairment – $308m
Other information
The other information comprises the information included
in the Annual Report set out on pages 1 to 509, including
the Strategic report (pages 1 to 133), the Directors’ report
Materiality
(pages 134 to 230), the Statement of directors’ responsibilities
(page 231) and the information not marked as ‘audited’ in the
Risk review and Capital review section (pages 232 to 325),
• Totals $4,689m Adjusted PBT and the Supplementary information (pages 474 to 509),
other than the financial statements and our auditor’s
• Materiality of $234m (5% of Adjusted PBT)
report thereon. The directors are responsible for the other
information contained within the annual report.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover
the other information and, except to the extent otherwise
During the course of our audit, we performed a reassessment explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form of
of our initial materiality. This assessment resulted in higher assurance conclusion thereon.
final materiality calculated based on the actual financial
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in
performance of the Group for the year. There were no
doing so, consider whether the other information is materially
changes to the basis for materiality calculation from the
inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge
planning stage.
obtained in the course of the audit, or otherwise appears
We determined materiality for the Parent Company to be to be materially misstated. If we identify such material
$210million (2021: $176 million) which is 0.4% (2021: 0.33%) of inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are
the equity of the Parent Company. We believe that equity required to determine whether this gives rise to a material
provides us with the most appropriate measure for the users misstatement in the financial statements themselves. If, based
of the Parent Company’s financial statements, given that the on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is
Parent Company is primarily a holding company. a material misstatement of the other information, we are
required to report that fact.
Performance materiality
We have nothing to report in this regard.
The application of materiality at the individual account
or balance level. It is set at an amount to reduce to an
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the
appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate
Companies Act 2006
of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds
materiality. In our opinion, the part of the directors’ remuneration report to
be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our
the Companies Act 2006.
assessment of the Group’s overall control environment, our
judgement was that performance materiality was 50% In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of
(2021: 50%) of our planning materiality, namely $117 million the audit:
(2021: $98 million). We have set performance materiality at
• the information given in the strategic report and the
this percentage based on a variety of risk assessment factors
directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial
such as the expectation of misstatements, internal control
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial
environment considerations and other factors such as the
statements; and
global complexity of the Group.
• the strategic report and the directors’ report have been
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of
prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement
accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total
performance materiality. The performance materiality set for
each component is based on the relative size and risk of the
component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of
the risk of misstatement at that component. In the current
year, the range of performance materiality allocated to
components was $8.8 million to $34.1 million (2021: $8 million
to $29 million).
Financial statements Independent auditor’s report
Matters on which we are required to report In preparing the financial statements, the directors are
by exception responsible for assessing the Group and Parent Company’s
ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group
applicable, matters related to going concern and using the
and the Parent Company and its environment obtained in
going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either
the course of the audit, we have not identified material
intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to
misstatements in the strategic report or the directors’ report.
cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters
in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the
report to you if, in our opinion: financial statements
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about
Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not whether the financial statements as a whole are free from
been received from branches not visited by us; or material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and
to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion.
• the Parent Company financial statements and the part of
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not
the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in
a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when
• certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and
law are not made; or are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate,
they could reasonably be expected to influence the
• we have not received all the information and explanations
economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these
we require for our audit.
financial statements.
Corporate Governance Statement
Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered
We have reviewed the directors’ statement in relation to capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud
going concern, longer-term viability and that part of the
Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance
Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Group
with laws and regulations. We design procedures in line with
and Company’s compliance with the provisions of the UK
our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect irregularities,
Corporate Governance Code specified for our review by the
including fraud. The risk of not detecting a material
Listing Rules.
misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not
Based on the work undertaken as part of our audit, we have detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve
concluded that each of the following elements of the deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional
Corporate Governance Statement is materially consistent misrepresentations, or through collusion. The extent to
with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained which our procedures are capable of detecting irregularities,
during the audit: including fraud is detailed below.
• Directors’ statement with regards to the appropriateness of However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and
adopting the going concern basis of accounting and any detection of fraud rests with both those charged with
material uncertainties identified set out on page 219; governance of the Company and management.
• Directors’ explanation as to its assessment of the • We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory
Company’s prospects, the period this assessment covers frameworks that are applicable to the Group and
and why the period is appropriate set out on pages 132 determined that the most significant are those that
and 133; relate to the reporting framework (UK-adopted IAS and
EU IFRS, the Companies Act 2006 and the UK Corporate
• Director’s statement on whether it has a reasonable
Governance Code, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)
expectation that the Group will be able to continue in
Listing Rules, the Main Board Listing Rules of the Hong Kong
operation and meets its liabilities set out on page 133;
Stock Exchange), regulations and supervisory requirements
• Directors’ statement on fair, balanced and understandable of the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA), FRC, FCA and
set out on page 218; other overseas regulatory requirements, including but not
limited to regulations in its major markets such as Hong
• Board’s confirmation that it has carried out a robust
Kong, India, Singapore, the United States of America, and
assessment of the emerging and principal risks set out on
the relevant tax compliance regulations in the jurisdictions
page 222;
in which the Group operates. In addition, we concluded that
• The section of the annual report that describes the review there are certain significant laws and regulations that may
of effectiveness of risk management and internal control have an effect on the determination of the amounts and
systems set out on pages 232 to 325; and disclosures in the financial statements and those laws and
regulations relating to regulatory capital and liquidity,
• The section describing the work of the audit committee set
conduct, financial crime including anti-money laundering,
out on pages 163 to 169.
sanctions and market abuse recognising the financial and
regulated nature of the Group’s activities.
Responsibilities of directors
As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities
statement set out on page 231, the directors are responsible
for the preparation of the financial statements and for being
satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such
internal control as the directors determine is necessary to
enable the preparation of financial statements that are free
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
338 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Financial statements Notes to the financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
1. Accounting policies
Statement of compliance Significant accounting estimates and critical judgements
The Group financial statements consolidate Standard Significant accounting estimates and judgements represent
Chartered PLC (the Company) and its subsidiaries (together those items which have a significant risk of causing a
referred to as the Group) and equity account the Group’s material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets
interests in associates and jointly controlled entities. The and liabilities within the next year. Significant accounting
parent company financial statements present information estimates and judgements are:
about the Company as a separate entity.
• Credit impairment, including evaluation of management
The Group financial statements have been prepared in overlays and post-model adjustments, and determination
accordance with UK-adopted international accounting of probability weightings for Stage 3 individually assessed
standards and International Financial Reporting Standards provisions (Note 8)
(IFRS) as adopted by the European Union (EU IFRS). The
• Financial instruments measured at fair value (Note 13)
Company financial statements have been prepared in
accordance with UK-adopted international accounting • Investments in subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures
standards as applied in conformity with section 408 of the and associates – China Bohai associate accounting and
Companies Act 2006. The financial statements have been impairment analysis (Note 32)
prepared in accordance with the requirements of the
Other areas of accounting estimate and judgement
Companies Act 2006.
Other areas of accounting estimate and judgement do not
There are no significant differences between UK-adopted
meet the definition under IAS 1 of significant accounting
international accounting standards and EU IFRS.
estimates or critical accounting judgements, but the
The following parts of the Risk review and Capital review recognition of certain material assets and liabilities are
form part of these financial statements: based on assumptions and/or are subject to long-term
uncertainties. The other areas of accounting estimate and
a) Risk review: Disclosures marked as ‘audited’ from the
judgement are:
start of the Credit Risk section (page 236) to the end of
Other principal risks in the same section (page 319). • Taxation (Note 10)
b) Capital review: Tables marked as ‘audited’ from the start • Goodwill impairment (Note 17)
of ‘CRD Capital base’ to the end of ‘Movement in total
• Property, plant and equipment (Note 18)
capital’, excluding ‘Total risk-weighted assets’ (pages 321
to 322). • Recoverable amounts for aircraft operating lease assets
(Note 18)
Basis of preparation
• Retirement benefit obligations (Note 30)
The consolidated and Company financial statements have
been prepared on a going concern basis and under the • Provisions for liabilities and charges (Note 24)
historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation
• Share-based payments (Note 31)
of cash-settled share-based payments, fair value through
other comprehensive income, and financial assets and Climate impact on the Group’s balance sheet
liabilities (including derivatives) at fair value through profit
Climate, and the impact of climate on the Group’s balance
or loss.
sheet is considered as an area of significant accounting
The consolidated financial statements are presented in estimate and judgment through the uncertainty of future
United States dollars ($), being the presentation currency of events and the impact of that uncertainty on the Group’s
the Group and functional currency of the Company, and all assets and liabilities. It is noted that although not currently
values are rounded to the nearest million dollars, except quantitatively material, the Group considers climate to be
when otherwise indicated. qualitatively material to the Group.
The Group has assessed the impact of climate risk on the
Significant and other accounting estimates and judgement
financial report. This is set out within the Sustainable and
In determining the carrying amounts of certain assets and Responsible Business chapter on pages 64 to 66 which
liabilities, the Group makes assumptions of the effects of incorporates the Group’s Climate-related Financial
uncertain future events on those assets and liabilities at the Disclosures which align with the recommendations from the
balance sheet date. The Group’s estimates and assumptions Task Force for Climate related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).
are based on historical experience and expectation of future Further risk disclosure has been provided on pages 301 and
events and are reviewed periodically. Further information 319 of the Principal Risks and Uncertainties section of the
about key assumptions concerning the future, and other key Annual Report where the Group has described how it
sources of estimation uncertainty and judgement, are set manages climate risk as an Integrated Risk Type.
out in the relevant disclosure notes for the areas set out
under the relevant headings below:
348 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 349
Financial
statements
1. Accounting policies continued
The areas of impact and where judgements and the use of With the aim to enhance our internal scenario analysis
estimates have been applied were credit risk and the impact capabilities in line with our Risk Appetite Statement, in
on lending portfolios; Environmental, Sustainability or 2022 we assessed the impact on our CCIB corporate client
Governance (ESG) features within issued loans and bonds; portfolio based on three International Energy Agency (IEA)
physical risk on our mortgage lending portfolio; and, the scenarios and three Phase 2 scenarios from the NGFS
corporate plan, in respect of which forward looking cash (Which align to the CBES scenarios) and participated in
flows impact the recoverability of certain assets, including of the Monetary Authority of Singapore Industry-Wide Stress
goodwill, deferred tax assets and investments in subsidiary Test. We also assessed the impact of sea level rises under
undertakings. various Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC)
Representative Concentration Pathways (RCP) scenarios to
This assessment on the corporate loan portfolio was
explore the Physical Risk impact on the Consumer, Private
undertaken by considering the maturity profile of the loan
and Business Banking (CPBB) residential mortgage portfolio
portfolio which is majority shorter term. Transition risk, as our
over short- and long-term time horizons for internal risk
clients move to lower carbon emitting revenues, (either by
management purposes. Notwithstanding these challenges,
virtue of legislation or changing end customer preference) is
our work to date, using certain assumptions and proxies,
considered with reference to client transition pathways and
indicates that our business is resilient to all Network of
manifests over a longer term than the maturity of the loan
Central Banks and Supervisors for Greening the Financial
book (up to 2050). Further transition risk is managed through
System (NGFS) and IEA scenarios that were explored.
reviews of clients with ESG risk by the Group’s Risk function,
and through an ongoing process of identifying clients which The Group, although acknowledging the limitations of
have transition pathways that are Paris 1.5 degree compliant current data available, increasing sophistication of models
and congruent with the Groups. evolving and nascent nature of climate impacts on internal
and client assets, considers Climate Risk to have limited
Physical risk is already included within the majority of our
quantitative impact in the immediate term and as a longer
mortgage lending and we have applied scenario analysis
term risk will be addressed through its business strategy
against the pathways of different temperature additions
and financial planning as the Group implements its net
and country policy scenarios. We also assess the impact of
zero journey.
climate risk on the classification of financial instruments
under IFRS 9, when ESG triggers may affect the cash flows
IFRS and Hong Kong accounting requirements
received by the Group under the contractual terms of
As required by the Hong Kong Listing Rules, an explanation
the instrument.
of the differences in accounting practices between UK-
The Group Climate Risk team have performed a top-down adopted IFRS and Hong Kong Financial Reporting
quantitative assessment of the impact of climate risk on the Standards is required to be disclosed. There would be no
IFRS 9 ECL provision. This assessment has been performed significant differences had these accounts been prepared in
across both the CCIB and CPBB portfolios. CCIB includes accordance with Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards.
Corporates, Sovereign, Asset Backed Securities, Commercial
and Specialised Lending. CPBB includes Mortgages, Comparatives
Personal Loans and Credit Cards. The climate adjusted ECL Certain comparatives have been restated in line with current
was estimated by adding climate scalars (multiplicative year disclosures. Details of these changes are set out in the
adjustments) to the business as usual ECL. The scalars, such relevant sections and notes below:
as LGD increases, have been informed by the judgement of
using three Network of Central Banks and Supervisors for • Note 2 Segmental information
Greening the Financial System (NGFS) pathways/scenarios, • Note 4 Net fees and commission
being Early Action, Late Action and No Additional Action.
These pathways have been probability weighted and • Note 12 Earnings per ordinary share
generally include the addition of carbon charges/taxes over • Note 13 Financial instruments
time to model transition risk. The impact assessment which
is considered a resulted in an marginal ECL increase across • Note 14 Derivative financial instruments
CCIB and CPBB which will not be recorded as an overlay for • Note 33 Structured entities
the 2022 year end (in line with our view that the quantitative
impact of Climate Risk is currently limited). • Note 36 Related party transactions
The Group’s corporate plan has a 5 year outlook and already • Risk review: various credit risk tables for new segment
includes where we have committed to transitioning away Ventures and Operational Risk events and losses
from certain high carbon sectors (i.e. coal), offset by • Capital review: new segment Ventures
transition finance opportunities. This is shorter term than
many of the climate scenario outlooks but seeks to capture New accounting standards in issue but not yet effective
the nearer term performance as required by recoverability
IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts
models. We have for the first time in the 2023 corporate plan
IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts was issued in May 2017 (and
included anticipated ECL charges linked to climate for three
subsequently amended in June 2020) to replace IFRS 4
sectors (Oil and Gas, Metals and Mining and Power) over
Insurance Contracts and to establish a comprehensive
the 5 years. This addition of ECL has not in itself, impacted
standard for inceptors of insurance policies. The Group will
the recoverability of assets supported by discounted
apply IFRS 17 for annual reporting periods beginning on
cash flow models (such as Value in Use) which utilise the
January 1, 2023. IFRS 17 will not have a material impact on
corporate plan.
the Group’s financial statements.
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 379
Financial
statements
13. Financial instruments continued
How the Group is managing the transition to alternative benchmark rates
In 2018, the Group established its IBOR Transition Programme to manage the transition away from LIBOR. Senior management
oversight for the Programme is provided by the Chief Executive Officers of CCIB and CPBB. The Programme’s strategic bank-
wide approach aims to support clients throughout the transition, while ensuring key risks and issues are identified and
effectively managed. The Programme is governed by a principal Programme Steering Committee that oversees 13 workstreams
aligned to the Group’s businesses and functions. Within the Programme, separate committees govern each workstream, and all
of them have a dedicated Accountable Executive.
Additional governance is supported by regular updates provided to senior risk committees, including the Group Risk Committee,
Board Risk Committee and the Corporate, Commercial and Institutional Banking Risk Committee.
From an industry and regulatory perspective, the Group actively participates in and contributes to working groups, industry
associations and business forums that focus on different aspects of the transition. The Group monitors the developments at
these forums and includes significant decisions into its broader transition plans.
Progress during 2022
Supported by a number of system enhancements, the Group has successfully enabled the transition to RFR products, with
end-to-end capabilities across a full suite of derivative and cash products. Activity in products referencing RFRs continued to
grow throughout 2022. New use of USD LIBOR has ceased, except for limited exceptions as permitted by the regulators.
The Group remediated all non-USD LIBOR exposures by early 2022 and has no reliance on synthetic GBP or JPY LIBOR in 2022.
During 2022, focus shifted on the remediation of legacy USD LIBOR transactions and automation of associated data and
processes. Clients with legacy USD LIBOR loans have been engaged to remediate their contracts primarily via active conversion
to alternative rates, or other suitable transition mechanisms such as the inclusion of robust fallbacks. The Group adhered to the
International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA) 2020 IBOR Fallbacks Protocol for all its trading entities and continued to
engage clients that had not adhered to negotiate remediation of USD LIBOR contracts by the end of June 2023. The Group will
also participate in the conversion events at the London Clearing House (LCH) during the first part of 2023.
Frontline and client engagement, including internal and client communications, training, and client webinars were a key feature
of the Programme throughout 2022 to support transition from USD LIBOR to Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR) as well
as the transition for other IBOR benchmarks that are ceasing.
Risks which the Group is exposed to due to IBOR transition
The Group has largely mitigated all material adverse outcomes associated with the cessation of IBOR benchmarks, and these
have not required a change to the Group’s risk management strategy. However, the Group will continue to focus on the
remediation required for other benchmarks, and will continue to monitor and manage the inherent risks of the transition, with
particular attention being paid to the following:
• Legal Risk: IBOR transition introduces significant legal risks and the Group has taken action to mitigate them where possible.
These include risks around contracts that reference USD LIBOR. Steps have been taken to either insert robust fallbacks or
actively convert transactions from the relevant IBOR to the new RFR-based options. The Group actively monitors remediation
progress and tracks exposures that are proving difficult to remediate. Based on the information available as at the date of
this Report, there is a reasonable probability that some such exposures may not be remediated by the first interest fixing
date following June 30 2023. The Group will apply certain legislative solutions to these exposures if required, including the
application of synthetic USD LIBOR, should it be made available
• Conduct Risk: The Group considers Conduct Risk to be a significant area of non-financial risk management throughout
the transition. Our risk appetite statement on Conduct Risk strives to maintain appropriate outcomes by continuously
demonstrating that we are ‘Doing the Right Thing’ in the way we do business. Accordingly, we recognise that the
identification and mitigation of conduct risks arising in respect of the transition are fundamental to the successful transition
to new RFR-based rates. The Group has therefore taken actions in this regard as an integral part of its IBOR Transition
Programme, including an extensive outreach programme
• Operational Risk: The Group has recognised the importance of the ongoing identification and management of Operational
Risk as a result of IBOR transition, including those related to systems affected by the transition. The Programme has adopted
the Group’s existing Operational Risk Framework in its approach to identifying, quantifying, and mitigating the impact of
operational risks resulting from the transition
• Market Risk: As trades are transitioned from IBOR to RFRs, the business-as-usual metrics, limit structure and controls will
continue to apply. Limits for value at risk and market risk sensitivities are in accordance with the Group Risk Appetite
Statement. New limits have been set following engagement with the business to consider client demand and market
liquidity in RFR-linked products, as well as the regulatory expectations
• Financial and pricing risk: The Group continues to monitor any financial impact of IBOR transition across business and
functional workstreams in the Programme, and is implementing model and pricing changes to mitigate these risks and
ensure alignment with conventions and pricing mechanisms of the alternative reference rates and indices
• Accounting Risk: The Group has identified the financial instruments that may be affected by accounting issues such as
accounting for contractual changes due to IBOR reform, fair value measurement and hedge accounting. We continue to
monitor and contribute to industry developments on tax and accounting changes.
Supplementary information
C[[ reating a cultural
Supplementary
exchange for good]]
information
476 Supplementary financial information
484 Supplementary people information
488 Supplementary sustainability Meet Arie Vidi N Nurcholis, Indonesia
information
Arie mobilised his Client Acquisitions and
493 2022 Sustainability Aspirations Client Care Centre team of 400 people to
496 Shareholder information volunteer together.
500 Main awards and accolades With over 90 per cent of his colleagues being
Muslim, they came together to support their
502 Glossary
local orphanage during Ramadan. They provided
daily breakfasts and rolled up their sleeves to
help with the building and maintenance work
at the orphanage.
As part of their cultural exchange, at the end of
the year, they also supported an annual Christmas
gathering at a local catholic orphanage, providing
food and gifts to the children.
This work not only brought their team together but
uplifted the children they visited.
[[Celebrating
our Community
Champions]]
This year, we are celebrating the
inspiring employee volunteering (EV)
work undertaken by our colleagues.
Employee volunteering is a core
component of our community
engagement and runs through our
DNA. It enables our employees to do
the right thing and strengthens their
relationships with our communities
as well as each other. Each employee
is entitled to up to four days of paid
volunteering leave a year, which can
be used for bank-wide initiatives or
supporting charitable causes of
their choice.
With thousands of EV hours
undertaken globally, here are three
champions who are truly here for good.
474 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Supplementary information Supplementary sustainability information
Supplementary sustainability information
Pillar 1: Business
Employees trained in environmental and social risk management
FY’22 FY’21 FY’20
Employees trained1 4,944 1,280 1,604
1 Employees targeted for training are those in client-facing roles and relevant support teams. For 2022, this figure also includes our ESRM e-learning
Environmental and social risk management
FY’22 FY’21 FY’20
Number of transactions reviewed 550 547 402
Number of clients reviewed 1,170 786 688
Client exits due to non-compliance with Position Statements 14 4
Equator Principles
Project finance mandates Project-related corporate loans Project-related refinance4 Project
advisory
Cat A1 Cat B2 Cat C3 Cat A Cat B Cat C Cat A Cat B Cat C mandates6
Total 2020 4.0 8.0 – 2.0 1.0 – – – – –
Total 2021 8.0 12.0 3.0 1.0 6.0 – – 1.0 – –
Total 2022 6.0 7.0 1.0 2.0 3.0 4.0 – – – –
2022
Sector A B C A B C
General Manufacturing 1.0
Infrastructure 2.0 3.0 1.0 2.0 3.0 3.0
Oil and Gas 1.0 1.0
Power 3.0 3.0
Region
Americas 1.0 2.0 1.0
Asia Pacific 4.0 2.0 1.0 1.0 2.0
Europe, Middle East & Africa 1.0 3.0 1.0 2.0 2.0
Designation5
Designated 1.0 4.0 1.0 1.0
Non-designated 5.0 3.0 2.0 3.0 3.0
Independent Review
Yes 6.0 7.0 1.0 2.0 3.0 1.0
No 3.0
1 Cat A or Category A are projects with potential significant adverse environmental and social risks and/or impacts that are diverse, irreversible or unprecedented
2 Cat B or Category B are projects with potential limited adverse environmental and social risks and/or impacts that are few in number, generally site-specific,
largely reversible and readily addressed through mitigation measures
3 Cat C or Category C are projects with minimal or no adverse environmental and social risks and/or impacts
4 In line with Equator Principles 4, Standard Chartered now reports those transactions that trigger project-related refinance
5 Designation is split into designated and non-designated countries. Designated countries are deemed by the Equator Principles to have robust environmental and
social governance, legislation systems and institutional capacity designed to protect their people and the natural environment. Non-designated countries are
countries that are not found on the list of designated countries. The list of countries can be found at www.equator-principles.com
6 Standard Chartered did not participate in any project advisory mandates that triggered the applicability of the Equator Principles in 2022
488 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 489
Supplementary
information
Pillar 2: Operations
Environment
2022 2021 2020
2021–2022
Units Footnote Measured Scaled Up Measured Scaled Up Measured Scaled Up % change
Reporting coverage of data
Offices reporting No. of offices 875 – 838 – 756 – 4
Net internal area of occupied
property m2 930,327 946,234 976,520 998,571 933,132 1,050,414 (5)
Green lease clause inclusion % 1 85 – 85 – 85 – –
Occupied net internal area
where data is collected % 98 – 98 – 89 – –
Headcount No. of
employees 2 83,266 80,318 81,957 74,316 83,657 2
Annual operating income from
1 October to 30 September $ million – 15,863 – – – 15,233 –
GHG emissions
Scope 1:
Scope 1 emissions (combustion
of fuels) tCOe 2,027 2,071 2,834 2,902 3,589 3,988 (29)
2
Scope 2:
Scope 2 emissions (purchased
electricity – location based) tCOe 46,345 47,363 80,835 82,761 102,477 113,870 (43)
2
Scope 2 emissions (purchased
electricity – market based) tCOe 3 41,492 42,403 73,016 74,906 – – (43)
2
Scope 1 & 24:
Scope 1 & 2 emissions (location
based) tCOe 48,372 49,434 83,669 85,662 106,066 117,858 (42)
2
Scope 1 & 2 emissions (UK and
offshore area only) tCOe – – – – – – –
2
Scope 3:
Category 1: Purchased goods
(Other) tCOe 5, 6 – 380,732 – 330,224 – – –
2
Purchased goods
(global data centres) tCOe 7 – 706 – 43,132 – 29,562 (98)
2
Category 2: Capital goods tCOe 5, 6 – 34,496 – 47,217 – – –
2
Category 3: Fuel-and-energy-
related activities tCOe 8 – – – – – – –
2
Category 4: Upstream
transportation and distribution tCOe 6 – 20,300 – 20,949 – – –
2
Category 5: Waste generated
in operations tCOe 9, 10 – 498 – – – – –
2
Category 6: Business travel
(air travel) tCOe 11 – 39,107 3,410 3,654 31,617 33,930 970
2
Business travel (miscellaneous
other than flights) tCOe 5, 6 – 2,654 – 4,994 – – –
2
Category 7: Employee
commuting tCOe 10, 12 – 61,917 – – – – –
2
Category 8: Upstream leased
assets tCOe 13 – – – – – – –
2
Category 9: Downstream
transportation and distribution tCOe 14 – – – – – – –
2
Category 10: Processing of sold
products tCOe 15 – – – – – – –
2
Category 11: Use of sold
products tCOe 15 – – – – – – –
2
Category 12: End of life
treatment of sold products tCOe 15 – – – – – – –
2
Category 13: Downstream
leased assets (corporate real
estate) tCOe 10, 16 – 8,594 – – – – –
2
Downstream leased assets
(leased aircraft) tCOe 10, 17 – 1,671,867 – – – – –
2
Category 14: Franchises tCOe 18 – – – – – – –
2
Category 15: Investments tCOe 19 – 58,500,000 – 45,200,000 – – 29
2
Total scope 3 tCOe 60,720,871 45,650,190 63,492
2
Total scope 1, 2 and 3 tCOe 60,770,305 45,735,852 181,350
2
Supplementary information Supplementary sustainability information
Pillar 2: Operations continued
Environment continued
2022 2021 2020
2021–2022
Units Footnote Measured Scaled Up Measured Scaled Up Measured Scaled Up % change
GHG emissions – Intensity:
By $m operating income
Scope 1 & 2 emissions/
$m operating income tCOe – 3 – 6 – 8 (47)
2
Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions/
$m operating income tCOe – 12 – 36 – 35 (66)
2
Environmental resource
efficiency
Energy 20
Indirect non-renewable energy
consumption GWh/year 140 142 139 142 164 184 (0)
Indirect renewable energy
consumption GWh/year 23 24 27 28 13 14 (13)
Direct non-renewable energy
consumption GWh/year 10 10 12 12 15 17 (16)
Direct renewable energy
consumption GWh/year 1 1 1 1 1 1 29
Energy consumption GWh/year 21 174 177 179 183 192 216 (3)
Energy consumption (UK and
offshore area only) GWh/year 6 6 5 5 – – 24
Energy consumption/ kWH/
Headcount headcount/
year 2,094 2,129 2,229 2,233 2,260 2,544 (5)
Water 22
Water consumption ML/year 265 385 256 384 363 483 0
% water consumption in
regions of high or extremely
high water stress % 23 0 – 30 30 – – (100)
Water consumption/ m3/
Headcount Headcount/
year 3 5 3 5 4 6 (2)
Waste 24
Waste ktonnes/year 1 2 2 4 4 5 (54)
Waste/Headcount kg/
Headcount/
year 17 19 28 43 43 65 (55)
Waste reused or recycled % 35 – 32 – 23 – –
Footnotes
1 Percentage of green lease clause inclusion in all new and renewed leases within the reporting year
2 Refers to the Group’s headcount as at 31 December 2022
3 Market-based data was first reported in 2021 and is unavailable for previous years. All aggregate and intensity emissions figures use location based data as their
foundation
4 We use an independent third-party assurance provider to verify our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. In 2022, our measured Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions, as
well as waste and water consumption, were assured by Global Documentation Ltd, ensuring the accuracy and credibility of our reporting. All energy consumed in
the UK is from verified renewable sources and therefore this is zero
5 Emissions reporting for purchased goods (other), capital goods and miscellaneous travel other than flights for the period 2020 and 2021 was finalised during 2022
and reported in our CDP submission
6 Calculation of category 1: Purchased Goods, category 2: Capital Goods, category 4: Upstream Transportation and Distribution and Category 6: Miscellaneous
travel is based on lagged data from the period 1 Jan 2021 to 31 December 2021. Estimated supplier emissions for 2022 expected to be available in Q2 2023
7 The decrease in emissions from data centers was due to the offset of REC’s (Renewable Energy Certificate) against the total energy consumption. REC’s are a type
of Energy Attribute Certificate that represents the environmental attributes of the generation of a one-megawatt hour (MWh) of energy produced by renewable
sources ie the proportion of power sourced from a national grid that is produced using renewable energy sources
8 Not relevant. We have no fuel or energy related activities which are not already captured in Scope 1 or 2 submission. Standard Chartered are a financial institution
and as such we do not mine, refine, transmit or distribute fuels. there are therefore no losses in said activities. We also do not generate power to sell to market.
We only generate power from standby generators for our own consumption. Emissions from this activity is covered under Scope 1 emissions
9 Emissions from waste extrapolated for whole company from measured office data using both landfill and recycled emission factors from Commercial and
Industrial Waste sourced from DEFRA
10 Emissions for Category 5: Waste generated in operations, Category 7: Employee Commuting and Category 13: Downstream Leased Assets was measured and
reported for the first time in 2022
490 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 491
Supplementary
information
11 Measured Scope 3 flight emissions are drawn from reliable data collected from 35 countries, based on seating class and distance flown. This data is then scaled
up to reflect the portion of the portfolio we do not gather measurements from. As we operate largely outside of the UK, all flights domestic or international with
flight distance of less than 785km, labeled by the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (DBEIS) as domestic flights, have been classified as
short haul. All flights with distance flown ranging from 785 to 3,700km, labeled by DBEIS as short haul have been classified as medium haul. All flights with a
distance flown in excess of 3,700km are classified as long haul
12 Commuting and working from home emissions extrapolated for the whole company from a sample survey responses for a selection of sites and countries, which
examined distance/mode of transport and heating/cooling at home. The Calculation is based on the Homeworking Emissions Whitepaper, EcoAct 2020
13 Not relevant. Scope 3 emissions from upstream leased assets are not relevant as they are included in Scope 1 and 2 emissions. The Group leases approximately
70% of its portfolio, either whole building or part from Landlords
14 Not relevant. As a financial institution, the Group does not transport or distribute products on a material scale. Most of our products are electronically distributed
using technology hosted in third-party data centers, disclosed under Scope 3 Category 1
15 Not relevant. As a provider of financial services, our products are predominantly intangible. Therefore this is not a material source of emissions for our business
16 Emissions derived from real estate downstream leased assets ie those assets owned but not occupied by SCB. Measured and applied with energy use intensity
value to create a consumption in kWhs per annum and then multiplied by country emission factor
17 This is the downstream leased assets in the groups aviation portfolio. Scope 1 and 2 emissions have been included
18 Not relevant. The Group does not operate any franchises
19 These are financed emissions of our CCIB lending portfolio. Our financed emissions in 2022 are 58.5 MTCO2e, up from 45.2 MTCO2e in 2021. This was following
the inclusion of 3 additional transport sectors into the financed emissions calculation. For further details refer to the Measurement and progress of our financed
emissions : sectoral deep dives for further details. Our analysis currently covers 61% of the financed emissions of the CCIB portfolio with further sectors to be added
to the analysis in future
20 We measured data from 98% of our properties to calculate our energy use across our properties. This is then scaled up to reflect the portion of the portfolio we do
not gather measurements from warehouses, empty land, car parks, unoccupied sites for business continuity purposes, residential properties, space occupied by
automated teller machines, vaults and space sub-let to tenants are excluded from this extrapolation. Figures for renewable, non-renewable and total energy in
GWh are rounded to one decimal place – therefore some discrepancies in rounded sum totals may arise. Total consumption figures have been verified as accurate
from source data. This also applies to previous periods which are therefore restated to the same level of detail. Further detail on the types of energy included
within these calculations can be found at sc.com/environmentcriteria
21 This value represents the total energy of heating, cooling and electricity consumption globally. Total energy use is normalised to reflect periods of vacancy in
certain sites during the reporting period
22 We measured data from 69% of our properties to calculate our water use across our properties. This is then scaled up to reflect the portion of the portfolio we do
not gather measurements from
23 Areas of high and extremely high water stress determined according to WRI Aqueduct tool. As accessed on 27 Jan 2023, these countries are South Africa,
Saudi Arabia, Bharain, Oman, Qatar, UAE, Pakistan, India, Thailand, China, Egypt and Türkiye. This is a new reporting addition for 2022
24 We measured data from 92% of our properties to calculate our waste across our properties. This is then scaled up to reflect the portion of the portfolio we do not
gather measurements from
Additional notes on environment data
The emissions within our inventory correspond to a reporting period of 1 October 2021 to 30 September 2022. This is to allow
sufficient time for independent assurance to be gained prior to the publication of results. Accordingly, the operating income
used in this inventory corresponds to the same period rather than the calendar year used in financial reporting. This is consistent
with international carbon reporting practice.
We use an independent third-party assurance provider to verify our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Our Scope 1 and 2
emissions are independently assured by Global Documentation, in accordance with ISO 14064.
Read our environment reporting criteria at Read our independent assurance report at
sc.com/environmentcriteria sc.com/environmentalassurance
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 493
Supplementary
information
2022 Sustainability Aspirations
Pillar 1: Business
Target Date Status 2022 Progress
Sustainable Finance
Mobilise $300bn of Sustainable Finance1 Jan 2021 – Dec 2030 Mobilised $23.4 billion, bringing the total
facilitated since 2021 to $48 billion.
Launch and grow green mortgages in key Jan 2022 – Dec 2023 Green Mortgages were successfully launched in
markets across our footprint Vietnam, Korea and Malaysia. Green Mortgages
are now live in a total of six markets including
Taiwan, Hong Kong and Singapore.
Climate
Measure, manage and reduce emissions Jan 2022 – Dec 2022 Developed 2030 emissions baseline and targets
associated with our financing via the for Aviation, Shipping and Automotive
implementation of our net zero ambition Manufacturers.
Only provide financial services to clients Jan 2020 – Jan 2030 Through our Environment & Social risk assessment
who are: process we have identified clients who are
By 2024, less than 80% dependent on thermal currently >80% dependent on thermal coal and
coal (based on % revenue); are engaging with them to understand their
By 2025, less than 60% dependent on thermal transition plans where applicable. Progress will be
coal (based on % revenue); closely monitored during 2023.
By 2027, less than 40% dependent on thermal
coal (based on % revenue);
By 2030, less than 5% dependent on thermal
coal (based on % revenue)
Achieve emissions reduction in our most carbon- Jan 2020 – Dec 2030 We remain on track for a 2030 delivery.
intensive sectors of: See page 81 for progress made in 2022.
63% in Power (Scopes 1 and 2 intensity);
33% in Steel Producers (Scopes 1 and 2 intensity);
33% in Mining (ex Coal) (Scopes 1 and 2
intensity);
30% in Oil and Gas (Scopes 1, 2 and 3 intensity)
and;
85% emissions reduction in coal mining (Scopes
1, 2 and 3 absolute)
Measure and report mortgage emissions with a Jan 2022 – Dec 2023 We completed emissions baseline measurements
view to setting targets by 2023 for Singapore, Hong Kong and Korea.
Commerce
Bank 10,000 of our clients’ international and Jan 2020 – Dec 2024 Enrolled 4,440 suppliers and buyers bringing the
domestic networks of suppliers and buyers total enrolled since Jan 2020 to 11,593.
through banking the ecosystem programmes
Impact Finance
Double Sustainable Investing Assets Under Jun 2021 – Dec 2025 Negative market valuation and developing
Management across a holistic proposition regulation around classification of sustainable
including Mutual Funds, Exchange Traded assets resulted in required adjustments on our
Funds (ETFs), Bonds, Equities, Structured Sustainable Investing Assets Under Management
Products, Discretionary Portfolio Mandates (AUM). Although this required an adjustment to
(DPMs) and Insurance Linked Plans (ILPs) our AUM, we welcome the developing regulation
around classification to ensure more stringent
standards.
Integrate ESG considerations in wealth Jan 2021 – Dec 2025 We have started to embed ESG factors into stock
management advisory activities selection as part of the advisory process. We
include ESG training for our bankers and also seek
to include ESG topics in some of our client events.
Supplementary information Supplementary sustainability information
Pillar 2: Operations
Target Date Status 2022 Progress
People
Increase gender representation to 35% women Sep 2016 – Dec 2025 In 2022, the proportion of women in senior
in senior roles leadership roles has increased to 32.1%. This is up
by 1.4 percentage points from December 2021
(30.7%) and 7.1 percentage points since December
2016 (25%).
Increase our ‘Culture of Inclusion’ score to 84.5% Jan 2020 – Dec 2024 In our annual MyVoice survey, 83.1% of employees
reported positive sentiments around our culture of
inclusion. We remain on track for our overall 2024
target.
Embed an integrated health and wellbeing Jan 2020 – Dec 2022 Progress has been made in multiple areas to
strategy to support building and re-skilling a embed the strategy. This includes global offerings
future-ready, diverse workforce such as flexi-working, our mental health app, a
physical wellbeing online platform, an employee
assistance programme, wellbeing toolkits,
learning programmes on resilience as well as a
growing network of trained Mental Health First
Aiders. In 2022, colleagues indicated through the
MyVoice survey that they feel better supported
on their wellbeing needs than in 2021. However,
globally, the levels of stress felt by employees
increased in survey from the previous year.
Create Diversity & Inclusion Supplier Plans for Jan 2022 – Dec 2025 93% of our highest spend markets have
all our markets2 to support 40% of our newly Diversity & Inclusion plans. As at December 2022,
onboarded suppliers being diverse on average 37% of our newly onboarded suppliers
were diverse.
Grow our employee MyVoice score to the Jan 2022 – Dec 2024 Achieved a score of 84% in 2022. We are taking
question “The way we operate day-to-day is action to move towards our 2024 target of 88%.
aligned with our sustainability strategy” from
2021 baseline of 84% to 88%3
Support at least 50% of all employees to Jan 2022 – Dec 2022 15% of all employees completed our learning
complete our learning programme on programme on Sustainability. While this fell short
Sustainability of the 50% target we had set, we are pleased
Support at least 70% of relevant employees with the preliminary progress given the voluntary-
to complete our Sustainable Finance nature of the training. The learning programme
training programme will continue to be promoted during 2023 to
continue to build skills and knowledge across
the bank.
The target of 70% completion rate was met for
the Sustainable Finance training. On average,
95% of relevant employees completed this
training programme across the three certificates.
Environment
Reduce annual Scope 1 & 2 greenhouse gas Jan 2019 – Dec 2025 Achieved 2022 target of 49,434 tonnes of CO
2
emissions to net zero by 2025 equivalent (tCOe), a reduction of over 40% on
2
our 2021 Scope 1 & 2 emissions of 85,000 tCOe.
2
Source all energy from renewable sources Jan 2020 – Dec 2025 All markets where clean energy can be purchased
through Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) and
utility companies are complete.
Remaining countries where we can buy Energy
Attribute Certificates (EACs) are 75% complete.
Remaining 25% to be completed by end 2025.
Achieve and maintain flight emissions 28% Jan 2021 – Dec 2023 Reported 39,107 tCOe and remain well ahead of
2
lower than our 2019 baseline of 94,000 tonnes our 28% flight emissions reduction target for 2023.
Reduce waste per colleague to 40kg per year Jan 2020 – Dec 2025 We reduced the overall waste generated by 37%,
and by 39% on a per employee basis to 19.2kg,
achieving our target three years ahead of
schedule. This was primarily due to new ways of
working which resulted in reduced employee
presence in our buildings.
Recycle 90% of waste Jan 2020 – Dec 2025 35% of waste was recycled in 2022. We remain on
track with plans to introduce new vendors through
partnerships in 2024.
Offset all residual emissions from our operations Jan 2022 – Dec 2022 Achieved our 2022 target through our carbon
(Scope 1 and 2, Scope 3 flights, waste and data credit purchases.
centres), doubling our average cost from $7.65 in
2021 to $15 per tonne in 2022
494 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 495
Supplementary
information
Pillar 2: Operations continued
Target Date Status 2022 Progress
Conduct and Compliance
Tackle financial crimes by contributing to Ongoing The Group contributed to the development of
developing typologies and red flags for typologies and red flags to assess financial flows
financial flows, training frontline staff to and to tackle financial crime. We also engaged
identify potential suspicious transactions and with officials on the financial services regulatory
participating in public-private partnerships to environment, in particular on prudential, financial
share intelligence and good practices markets, conduct and financial crime frameworks.
In 2022, we also launched the ‘Understanding our
Financial Crime Risks’ course to train staff on the
various impacts of financial crime.
Develop and deliver a targeted outreach Jan 2022 – Dec 2024 Continued to successfully engage via
programme, including through key international international and regional platforms through
platforms, aimed at safely and transparently 2022 to support our intention to scale up
reducing barriers to capital mobilisation for sustainable finance and reduce barriers to capital
sustainable development mobilisation. These platforms and engagements
have promoted blended finance, sustainable
infrastructure, carbon markets, transition finance,
capacity building and sustainability-related
disclosures as key mobilisation mechanisms.
Pillar 3: Communities
Target Date Status 2022 Progress
Communities
Invest 0.75% of prior year operating profit Ongoing Contributed $51.2 million to the community in
(PYOP) in our communities 2022, which represents 1.5% of PYOP.
Raise $75m for Futuremakers by Standard Jan 2019 – Dec 2023 $14.7 million was contributed through fundraising
Chartered and donations by the Group in 2022, taking the
total to $78.7 million in the last four years.
Education: Reach one million girls and young Jan 2006 – Dec 2023 We reached 93,268 girls and young women,
women through Goal which is below our year-end target of 115,000 girls.
This brings the total reach from 2006 to 2022 to
827,297 girls and young women. In 2023 we will
work to compensate for the lag in the past couple
of years due to COVID-19 programme disruptions.
Employability: Reach 100,000 young people Jan 2019 – Dec 2023 105,014 young people participated in
employability programmes. This brings the total
to 218,144 young people reached from 2019 to
2022.
Increase participation for employee Jan 2020 – Dec 2023 Employee volunteering participation rate was
volunteering to 55% 39% in 2022. 32,706 of our colleagues volunteered
for a total of 49,528 days. We have exceeded our
2022, 33% participation target by 6 percentage
points and have a plan in place to meet the 2023
55% participation target.
Concluded in the year Ongoing aspirations
Achieved Not achieved On track Not on track
1 Business banking SME and Microfinance lending is the provision of finance to Development Assistance Committee (DAC) lower and middle lower income
countries as per the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). The inclusion of business banking is linked to the “Access to Finance”
sub theme within the Group’s Green and Sustainable product framework incorporating Employment generation, and programmes designed to prevent and/or
alleviate unemployment, including through the potential effect of SME financing and microfinance. With the inclusion of business banking, the Entrepreneur
(Lending to SME’s and Microfinance) aspirations would be double counted and these aspirations have therefore been retired
2 Refers to in-scope markets with Supply Chain Management (SCM) presence
3 The wording of the question asked from colleagues in the MyVoice survey has been amended to reflect the redefinition ofthe Group’s Sustainability Vision.
Therefore, the wording in this Sustainability Aspiration has been modified to reflect this change
Supplementary information Shareholder information
Important notices Financial instruments
Nothing in this document shall constitute, in any jurisdiction,
Forward-looking statements
an offer or solicitation to sell or purchase any securities
The information included in this document may contain or other financial instruments, nor shall it constitute a
‘forward-looking statements’ based upon current recommendation or advice in respect of any securities or
expectations or beliefs as well as statements formulated other financial instruments or any other matter.
with assumptions about future events. Forward-looking
statements include, without limitation, projections, estimates, Basis of Preparation and Caution Regarding
commitments, plans, approaches, ambitions and targets Data Limitations
(including, without limitation, ESG commitments, ambitions
This section is specifically relevant to, amongst others,
and targets). Forward-looking statements often use words
the sustainability and climate models, calculations and
such as ‘may’, ‘could’, ‘will’, ‘expect’, ‘intend’, ‘estimate’,
disclosures throughout this report.
‘anticipate’, ‘believe’, ‘plan’, ‘seek’, ‘aim’, ‘continue’ or other
words of similar meaning. Forward-looking statements may The information contained in this document has been
also (or additionally) be identified by the fact that they do not prepared on the following basis:
relate only to historical or current facts.
i. certain information in this document is unaudited;
By their very nature, forward-looking statements are subject
ii. all information, positions and statements set out in this
to known and unknown risks and uncertainties and can be
document are subject to change without notice;
affected by other factors that could cause actual results, and
the Group’s plans and objectives, to differ materially from iii. the information included in this document does not
those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. constitute any investment, accounting, legal, regulatory
Readers should not place reliance on, and are cautioned or tax advice or an invitation or recommendation to enter
about relying on, any forward-looking statements. into any transaction;
There are several factors which could cause actual results to iv. the information included in this document may have been
differ materially from those expressed or implied in forward- prepared using models, methodologies and data which
looking statements. The factors that could cause actual are subject to certain limitations. These limitations include:
results to differ materially from those described in the a lack of reliable data (due, amongst other things, to
forward-looking statements include (but are not limited to): developing measurement technologies and analytical
changes in global, political, economic, business, competitive methodologies); a lack of standardisation of data
and market forces or conditions, or in future exchange and (given, amongst other things, the lack of international
interest rates; changes in environmental, geopolitical, social or coordination on data and methodology standards);
physical risks; legal, regulatory and policy developments, and future uncertainty (due, amongst other things,
including regulatory measures addressing climate change to changing projections relating to technological
and broader sustainability-related issues; the development development and global and regional laws, regulations
of standards and interpretations, including evolving and policies, and the inability to make use of strong
requirements and practices in Environmental, Social and historical data);
Governance reporting; the ability of the Group, together with
v. models, external data and methodologies used in
governments and other stakeholders to measure, manage,
information included in this document are or could be
and mitigate the impacts of climate change and broader
subject to adjustment which is beyond our control;
sustainability-related issues effectively; risks arising out of
health crises and pandemics; risks of cyber-attacks, data, vi. any opinions and estimates should be regarded as
information or security breaches or technology failures indicative, preliminary and for illustrative purposes only.
involving the Group; changes in tax rates, future business Expected and actual outcomes may differ from those set
combinations or dispositions; and other factors specific to out in this document (as explained in the “Forward-looking
the Group, including those identified in this Annual Report statements” section);
and financial statements of the Group. Any forward-looking
vii. some of the related information appearing in this
statements contained in this document are based on past or
document may have been obtained from public and
current trends and/or activities of the Group and should not
other sources and, while the Group believes such
be taken as a representation that such trends or activities will
information to be reliable, it has not been independently
continue in the future.
verified by the Group and no representation or warranty
No statement in this document is intended to be, nor should is made by the Group as to its quality, completeness,
be interpreted as, a profit forecast or to imply that the accuracy, fitness for a particular purpose or non-
earnings of the Group for the current year or future years infringement of such information;
will necessarily match or exceed the historical or published
viii. for the purposes of the information included in this
earnings of the Group. Except as required by any applicable
document, a number of key judgements and assumptions
laws or regulations, the Group expressly disclaims any
have been made. It is possible that the assumptions
obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statement
drawn, and the judgement exercised may subsequently
contained within this document, regardless of whether those
turn out to be inaccurate. The judgements and data
statements are affected as a result of new information, future
presented in this document are not a substitute for
events or otherwise.
judgements and analysis made independently by
Please refer to this document for a discussion of certain the reader;
of the risks and factors that could adversely impact the
ix. any opinions or views of third parties expressed in this
Group’s actual results, and its plans and objectives, to differ
document are those of the third parties identified, and not
materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-
of the Group, its affiliates, directors, officers, employees or
looking statements.
agents. By incorporating or referring to opinions and views
of third parties, the Group is not, in any way, endorsing or
supporting such opinions or views;
498 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Supplementary information Awards
Main awards and accolades in 2022
AmCham CSR Excellence Awards by The Asian Banker Excellence in Retail Corporate Treasurer Awards
American Chamber of Commerce in Financial Services Awards’ • Best Transaction Bank, Hong Kong
Thailand • Best Digital Banking Services,
• Best Trade Finance Bank, South Asia
• Standard Chartered Recognised – Hong Kong
12th Consecutive Year • Best Cash Management Bank,
• Best Wealth Management, Ghana
Hong Kong
Asian Banking and Finance Wholesale
The Asian Banker: Transaction Finance
Banking Awards The Digital Banker: Digital CX Awards
Awards
• International Swift Initiative of the • Best Transaction Bank for Digital CX,
• Best International Supply Chain
Year, Singapore United Kingdom
Finance Bank, Asia Pacific
• International Data Initiative of the • Best Islamic Bank, Malaysia
• Most Sustainable Transaction Bank,
Year, Singapore
Asia Pacific • Best Transaction Bank for Digital CX,
Globally
Asiamoney Best
The Asian Banker: The Excellence in
Bank Awards • Best Wholesale/Transaction Bank for
Retail Financial Services Awards
• Best International Digital CX, United Kingdom
• Most Recommended Retail Bank,
Bank, Bangladesh
Taiwan
Global Finance World’s Best Islamic
• Best ESG Bank, Hong Kong
Financial Institutions
Asian Banking and Finance:
• Best ESG Bank, Vietnam • World’s Best Islamic Financial
Retail Banking Awards
Institution, Bangladesh
• Employer Award of the Year,
The Asset Triple A Awards
Hong Kong
• Best RMB Bank in 21 markets The Digital Banker – Global Retail
• International Retail Bank of the Year, Banking Innovation Awards
• Best Bond Adviser, Vietnam
Hong Kong • Winner – Outstanding Client
• Best Green Bond, Vietnam Onboarding & Account Opening,
• ESG Programme of the Year,
India
• Best in Treasury and Working Capital, Hong Kong
Taiwan • Highly Acclaimed – Best ESG initiative,
Aviation 100 Middle East, Africa & India
The Asset Triple A Treasury, Trade, Islamic Deals of the Year Awards
• Highly Acclaimed – Excellence in
Sustainable Supply Chain, and Risk • Bank of the Year, Middle East & Africa
Metaverse Investment, India
Management Awards
• Lease Deal of the Year, Middle East &
• Best Transaction Bank, Malaysia
Africa Euromoney Market Leaders
• Best Service Providers for Cash Recognitions
Management in Sri Lanka Bloomberg • Corporate Banking Market Leader,
Businessweek Hong Kong
• Best Service Providers for Trade
Chinese Edition
Finance, Sri Lanka • SME Banking (Market Leader),
Financial
Hong Kong
Institution Awards
The Asset Triple A
• Bank of the Year, Hong Kong • ESG Market Leader, Hong Kong
Sustainable Investing
Awards • ESG Sustainability Bank of the Year,
EMEA Finance Achievement Awards
• Best Sub-Custodian Hong Kong
• Best Export Credit Agency Syndicated
Bank, Philippines
• Bank of the Year, Greater Bay Area Loan and Best Structured Finance
Deal
The Asset Triple A Sustainable Capital • FinTech Bank of the Year, Greater
Markets Country Awards Bay Area
Financial Times Statista
• Best Formosa Bond, Taiwan
• ESG Sustainability Bank of the Year, • Named one of Europe’s Climate
Greater Bay Area Leaders
The Banker’s Bank of the Year Awards
• Best Bank, Bangladesh
500 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 501
Supplementary
information
Forbes Retail Banker International: Asia Diversity & Inclusion and
• World’s Best Banks in China Trailblazer Awards employer awards
• Best Retail Bank, Taiwan
Global Retail Banking Innovation Asiamoney
Awards Singapore Business Review Technology • Best Bank for Diversity & Inclusion,
• Best Credit Card for BNPL, Singapore Excellence Awards Taiwan
• Outstanding Artificial Intelligence on
• Best Equity Trading PlatfoSrtman dfoarrd Chartered'saward wins for
Global Finance SustainAabrltei fFiciniaanl cIne tAewllaigrdesn 2c0e22 capability, India British Chamber of Commerce
SmartStocks, Malaysia
• Great Place to Work-Certified™ • Diversity & Inclusion Champion of the
Global Finance Global Year, Singapore
•Outstanding Leadership in Social Bonds
Sustainable Finance Taiw•aOuntst aEndningt Seusrtpainraibsle eFin Sanucinsg tina Eminergaingb Mialrikteyts
Awards Awards: Corporate Comprehensive British Diversity Awards
• Outstanding Perf• R o e O g ru i mt o s n ta a na l dinngc Leead ership in Social Bonds • Highly Commended – Supplier
Leadership in Social • Fo • rO – eu W tis e gt s a t nn e d rn i n Cg E u S r ou o s p mt e a inpablae Fninaiencsin gS inu Emsetraginign Maarkbetisl ity Diversity Programme of the Year,
Bonds, Western Europe Mo–dWeestle rAn Ewuroaperd – Sixth Consecutive Year Europe and Americas
• Outstanding Sustainable Wealth Briefing MENA Awards Financial Times
Financing in Emerging
• Most Innovative Wealth • Listed as a Diversity Leader, United
Markets, Western Europe
Management Model, MENA – Kingdom – Third Consecutive Year
Third Consecutive Year
Global Business Review
Great Places to Work certified
• Best Foreign Bank, Vietnam –
WealthBriefing European Awards • Poland – second consecutive year
Second Consecutive Year
• CPBB Europe, Best UK International • Sri Lanka – fourth consecutive year
Clients Team, for the second year
Hong Kong Business High Flyers
running • United States
Awards
• Bank of the Year, Hong Kong • Best UK Private Bank Talent HR Asia
Management & Diversity
• Best Companies to Work for in Asia,
Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s
Vietnam
Corporate Equality Index Wealth Briefing Channel Islands
• Received a Perfect Score, United Awards Newsweek
States – Fourth Consecutive Year • Best Private Bank for ESG Investing
• Top 100 places to
work, US
International Finance Awards World Economic Magazine
• Best CSR Bank, Bangladesh • Best Retail Bank Taiwan 2022 by Retail Banker International:
• Best Digital Bank, Singapore World Economic Magazine Asia Trailblazer Awards
• Best Advance in Diversity and
UN Women 2022 Philippines Women
Korea Best Banker Awards Inclusion Initiatives, Taiwan
Empowerment Principles (WEPs)
• The Financial Supervisory Service Awards • Best Benefits, Wellness and Wellbeing
Governor’s Award in the Best Social • 1st Runner Up, Gender-Inclusive Program, Taiwan
contribution Category
Workplace Category
Top LinkedIn Companies
MEA Finance Awards 2022
Vietnam Economic Times • Top Financial Institution,
• Best Overall Wealth Management • Leading Foreign Bank Singapore
Service, Middle East – Second
Consecutive Year • Ranked 2nd Overall,
Visa Singapore – Second
Metro Media & Hong Kong Quality • Excellence in Consumer Credit Card Consecutive Year
Business, Nepal
Assurance Agency
WealthBriefing European Awards 2022
• Corporate Sustainability Award, • Excellence in Vas Products, Nepal
Greater Bay Area • Best UK International Clients Team,
CPBB Europe – Second Consecutive
Private Banker International Awards Year
• Outstanding Private Bank for • Best Private Bank for Talent
International Clients, United Kingdom Management & Diversity, United
Kingdom
Bloomberg Gender Equality Index
• Recognised – Seventh Consecutive
Year
Forbes
• World’s Best Employer
Supplementary information Glossary
Glossary
Absolute financed emissions BCBS or Basel Committee on Clawback
A measurement of our attributed share Banking Supervision An amount an individual is required
of our clients’ greenhouse gas emissions. A forum on banking supervisory matters to pay back to the Group, which has
which develops global supervisory to be returned to the Group under
AT1 or Additional Tier 1 capital standards for the banking industry. Its certain circumstances.
Additional Tier 1 capital consists of members are officials from 45 central
instruments other than Common banks or prudential supervisors from Commercial real estate
Equity Tier 1 that meet the Capital 27 countries and territories. Includes office buildings, industrial
Requirements Regulation (as it forms property, medical centres, hotels, malls,
part of UK domestic law) criteria for Basic earnings per share (EPS) retail stores, shopping centres, farm
inclusion in Tier 1 capital. Represents earnings divided by the land, multi-family housing buildings,
basic weighted average number warehouses, garages and industrial
Additional value adjustment of shares. properties. Commercial real estate
See Prudent valuation adjustment. loans are those backed by a package
Basis point (bps) of commercial real estate assets.
Advanced Internal Rating One hundredth of a per cent (0.01 per
Based (AIRB) approach cent); 100 basis points is 1 per cent. CET1 or Common Equity Tier 1
capital
The AIRB approach under the Basel
framework is used to calculate credit CRD or Capital Requirements Common Equity Tier 1 capital consists
risk capital based on the Group’s own Directive of the common shares issued by the
estimates of prudential parameters. A capital adequacy legislative package Group and related share premium,
adopted by the PRA. CRD comprises the retained earnings, accumulated other
Alternative performance Capital Requirements Directive and the comprehensive income and other
measures UK onshored Capital Requirements disclosed reserves, eligible non-
A financial measure of historical or Regulation (CRR). The package controlling interests and regulatory
future financial performance, financial implements the Basel III framework adjustments required in the calculation
position, or cash flows, other than a together with transitional arrangements of Common Equity Tier 1.
financial measure defined or specified for some of its requirements. CRD IV
CET1 ratio
in the applicable financial reporting came into force on 1 January 2014. The
framework. EU CRR II and CRD V amending the A measure of the Group’s CET1 capital
existing package came into force in as a percentage of risk-weighted assets.
ASEAN June 2019 with most changes starting to
Association of South East Asian Nations apply from 28 June 2021. Only those Contractual maturity
(ASEAN) which includes the Group’s parts of the EU CRR II that applied on or Contractual maturity refers to the
operations in Brunei, Indonesia, before 31 December 2020, when the final payment date of a loan or other
Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, UK was a member of the EU, have financial instrument, at which point all
Thailand and Vietnam. been implemented. The PRA recently the remaining outstanding principal
finalised the UK’s version of the CRR II and interest is due to be paid.
AUM or Assets under for implementation on 1 January 2022.
Countercyclical capital buffer
management
Capital-lite income
The countercyclical capital buffer
Total market value of assets such as
Income derived from products with low (CCyB) is part of a set of
deposits, securities and funds held by
RWA consumption or products which macroprudential instruments, designed
the Group on behalf of the clients.
are non-funding in nature. to help counter procyclicality in the
Basel II financial system. CCyB as defined in
Capital resources the Basel III standard provides for an
The capital adequacy framework
Sum of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital after additional capital requirement of up to
issued by the Basel Committee on
regulatory adjustments. 2.5 per cent of risk-weighted assets in a
Banking Supervision (BCBS) in June
given jurisdiction. The Bank of England’s
2006 in the form of the International
CGU or Cash-generating unit Financial Policy Committee has the
Convergence of Capital Measurement
and Capital Standards. The smallest identifiable group of assets power to set the CCyB rate for the
that generates cash inflows that are United Kingdom. Each bank must
Basel III largely independent of the cash inflows calculate its ‘institution-specific’ CCyB
from other assets or groups of assets. rate, defined as the weighted average
The global regulatory standards on
of the CCyB rates in effect across the
bank capital adequacy and liquidity,
Cash shortfall jurisdictions in which it has credit
originally issued in December 2010 and
exposures. The institution-specific
updated in June 2011. In December 2017, The difference between the cash flows
CCyB rate is then applied to a bank’s
the BCBS published a document setting that are due in accordance with the
total risk-weighted assets.
out the finalisation of the Basel III contractual terms of the instrument and
framework. The latest requirements the cash flows that the Group expects
issued in December 2017 will be to receive over the contractual life of
implemented from 2022. the instrument.
502 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Supplementary information Glossary
EU or European Union FCA or Financial Conduct G-SIB buffer
The European Union (EU) is a political Authority A CET1 capital buffer which results from
and economic union of 27 member The Financial Conduct Authority designation as a G-SIB. The G-SIB buffer
states that are located primarily regulates the conduct of financial is between 1 per cent and 3.5 per cent,
in Europe. firms and, for certain firms, prudential depending on the allocation to one of
standards in the UK. It has a strategic five buckets based on the annual
Eurozone objective to ensure that the relevant scoring. In the UK, the G-SIB buffer is
Represents the 19 EU countries that markets function well. implemented via the CRD as Global
have adopted the euro as their Systemically Important Institutions
common currency. Forbearance (G-SII) buffer requirement.
Forbearance takes place when a
ECL or Expected credit loss concession is made to the contractual Green and Sustainable Product
Represents the present value of terms of a loan in response to an Framework
expected cash shortfalls over the obligor’s financial difficulties. The Group Sets out underlying eligible qualifying
residual term of a financial asset, classifies such modified loans as either themes and activities that may be
undrawn commitment or ‘Forborne – not impaired loans’ or ‘Loans considered ESG .This has been
financial guarantee. subject to forbearance – impaired’. developed with the support of
Once a loan is categorised as either of external experts, has been informed
Expected loss these, it will remain in one of these two by industry and supervisory principles
The Group measure of anticipated categories until the loan matures or and standards such as the Green
loss for exposures captured under satisfies the ‘curing’ conditions described Bond Principles and EU Taxonomy
an internal ratings-based credit risk in Note 8 to the financial statements. for sustainable activities.
approach for capital adequacy
Forborne – not impaired loans Hong Kong regional hub
calculations. It is measured as the
Group-modelled view of anticipated Loans where the contractual terms Standard Chartered Bank (Hong Kong)
loss based on probability of default, have been modified due to financial Limited and its subsidiaries including
loss given default and exposure at difficulties of the borrower, but the loan the primary operating entities in China,
default, with a one-year time horizon. is not considered to be impaired. See Korea and Taiwan. Standard Chartered
‘Forbearance’. PLC is the ultimate parent company
Exposures of Standard Chartered Bank (Hong
Credit exposures represent the amount Funded/unfunded exposures Kong) Limited.
lent to a customer, together with any Exposures where the notional amount
undrawn commitments. of the transaction is funded or Interest rate risk
unfunded. Represents exposures where The risk of an adverse impact on the
EAD or Exposure at default a commitment to provide future funding Group’s income statement due to
The estimation of the extent to which is made but funds have been released/ changes in interest rates.
the Group may be exposed to a not released.
IRB or internal ratings-based
customer or counterparty in the event of,
and at the time of, that counterparty’s FVA or Funding valuation approach
default. At default, the customer may adjustments Risk-weighting methodology in
not have drawn the loan fully or may FVA reflects an adjustment to fair value accordance with the Basel Capital
already have repaid some of the in respect of derivative contracts that Accord where capital requirements
principal, so that exposure is typically reflects the funding costs that the are based on a firm’s own estimates
less than the approved loan limit. market participant would incorporate of prudential parameters.
when determining an exit price.
ECAI or External Credit Internal model approach
Assessment Institution G-SIBs or Global Systemically The approach used to calculate market
External credit ratings are used to assign Important Banks risk capital and RWA with an internal
risk-weights under the standardised Global banking financial institutions market risk model approved by the
approach for sovereigns, corporates whose size, complexity and systemic PRA under the terms of CRD/CRR.
and institutions. The external ratings interconnectedness mean that their
are from credit rating agencies that are distress or failure would cause significant IAS or International Accounting
registered or certified in accordance disruption to the wider financial system Standard
with the credit rating agencies and economic activity. The list of G-SIBs A standard that forms part of the
regulation or from a central bank is assessed under a framework International Financial Reporting
issuing credit ratings which is exempt established by the FSB and the BCBS. Standards framework.
from the application of this regulation. In the UK, the G-SIB framework is
implemented via the CRD and G-SIBs
ESG are referred to as Global Systemically
Environmental, Social and Governance. Important Institutions (G-SIIs).
504 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 505
Supplementary
information
IASB or International Loan exposure Malus
Accounting Standards Board Loans and advances to customers An arrangement that permits the
An independent standard-setting body reported on the balance sheet held Group to prevent vesting of all or part
responsible for the development and at amortised cost or FVOCI, non- of the amount of an unvested variable
publication of IFRS, and approving cancellable credit commitments and remuneration award, due to a specific
interpretations of IFRS standards cancellable credit commitments for crystallised risk, behaviour, conduct or
that are recommended by the IFRS credit cards and overdraft facilities. adverse performance outcome.
Interpretations Committee (IFRIC).
Loans and advances to Master netting agreement
IFRS or International Financial customers An agreement between two
Reporting Standards This represents lending made under counterparties that have multiple
A set of international accounting bilateral agreements with customers derivative contracts with each other
standards developed and issued by the entered into in the normal course of that provides for the net settlement
International Accounting Standards business and is based on the legal form of all contracts through a single
Board, consisting of principles-based of the instrument. payment, in a single currency, in the
guidance contained within IFRSs and event of default on, or termination of,
IASs. All companies that have issued Loans and advances to banks any one contract.
publicly traded securities in the EU are Amounts loaned to credit institutions
Mezzanine capital
required to prepare annual and interim including securities bought under
reports under IFRS and IAS standards Reverse repo. Financing that combines debt and
that have been endorsed by the EU. equity characteristics. For example,
LTV or loan-to-value ratio a loan that also confers some profit
IFRIC A calculation which expresses the participation to the lender.
The IFRS Interpretations Committee amount of a first mortgage lien as a
MREL or minimum requirement
supports the IASB in providing percentage of the total appraised
authoritative guidance on the value of real property. The loan-to- for own funds and eligible
accounting treatment of issues not value ratio is used in determining the liabilities
specifically dealt with by existing IFRSs appropriate level of risk for the loan and A requirement under the Bank Recovery
and IASs. therefore the correct price of the loan to and Resolution Directive for EU
the borrower. resolution authorities to set a minimum
Income return on risk weighted requirement for own funds and eligible
assets (IRoRWA) Loans past due liabilities for banks, implementing the
Annualised Income excluding Debit Loans on which payments have been FSB’s Total Loss Absorbing Capacity
Valuation Adjustment as a percentage due for up to a maximum of 90 days (TLAC) standard. MREL is intended to
of Average RWA. including those on which partial ensure that there is sufficient equity and
payments are being made. specific types of liabilities to facilitate
Investment grade an orderly resolution that minimises any
A debt security, treasury bill or similar Loans subject to forbearance – impact on financial stability and ensures
instrument with a credit rating impaired the continuity of critical functions and
measured by external agencies of Loans where the terms have been avoids exposing taxpayers to loss.
AAA to BBB. renegotiated on terms not consistent
Net asset value (NAV) per share
with current market levels due to
Leverage ratio financial difficulties of the borrower. Ratio of net assets (total assets less total
A ratio introduced under CRD IV Loans in this category are necessarily liabilities) to the number of ordinary
that compares Tier 1 capital to total impaired. See ‘Forbearance’. shares outstanding at the end of a
exposures, including certain exposures reporting period.
held off-balance sheet as adjusted by Loss rate
Net exposure stipulated credit conversion factors. Uses an adjusted gross charge-off rate,
Intended to be a simple, non-risk-based developed using monthly write-off and The aggregate of loans and advances
backstop measure. recoveries over the preceding 12 months to customers/loans and advances to
and total outstanding balances. banks after impairment provisions,
Liquidation portfolio restricted balances with central banks,
A portfolio of assets which is beyond our LGD or Loss given default derivatives (net of master netting
current risk appetite metrics and is held The percentage of an exposure that a agreements), investment debt and
for liquidation. lender expects to lose in the event of equity securities, and letters of credit
obligor default. and guarantees.
LCR or Liquidity coverage ratio
The ratio of the stock of high-quality Low returning clients Net zero
liquid assets to expected net cash See ‘Perennial sub-optimal clients’. The commitment to reaching net zero
outflows over the following 30 days. carbon emissions from our operations
High-quality liquid assets should be by 2025 and from our financing by 2050.
unencumbered, liquid in markets during
NII or Net interest income
a time of stress and, ideally, be central
bank eligible. The difference between interest
received on assets and interest paid
on liabilities.
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022 507
Supplementary
information
Repo/reverse repo metering is not available, collated from Securitisation
A repurchase agreement or repo is a fuel vendor invoices. Emissions from the Securitisation is a process by which
short-term funding agreement, which combustion of fuel in Group-operated credit exposures are aggregated
allows a borrower to sell a financial transportation devices, as well as into a pool, which is used to back
asset, such as asset-backed securities fugitive emissions, are excluded as new securities. Under traditional
or government bonds as collateral for being immaterial. securitisation transactions, assets are
cash. As part of the agreement the sold to a structured entity which then
Scope 2 emissions
borrower agrees to repurchase the issues new securities to investors at
security at some later date, usually less Arise from the consumption of indirect different levels of seniority (credit
than 30 days, repaying the proceeds of sources of energy during the use of tranching). This allows the credit quality
the loan. For the party on the other end property occupied by the Group. of the assets to be separated from the
of the transaction (buying the security Energy generated off-site in the form credit rating of the originating institution
and agreeing to sell in the future), it is of purchased electricity, heat, steam or and transfers risk to external investors
a reverse repurchase agreement or cooling is collected as kilowatt hours in a way that meets their risk appetite.
reverse repo. consumed using meters or, where Under synthetic securitisation
metering is not available, collated from transactions, the transfer of risk is
Residential mortgage vendor invoices. For leased properties achieved by the use of credit derivatives
A loan to purchase a residential we include all indirect and direct sources or guarantees, and the exposures being
property which is then used as collateral of energy consumed by building services securitised remain exposures of the
to guarantee repayment of the loan. (amongst other activities) within the originating institution.
The borrower gives the lender a lien space occupied by the Group. This can
against the property, and the lender can include base building services under Senior debt
foreclose on the property if the borrower landlord control but over which we Debt that takes priority over other
does not repay the loan per the agreed typically hold a reasonable degree of unsecured or otherwise more ‘junior’
terms. Also known as a home loan. influence. All data centre facilities with debt owed by the issuer. Senior debt has
conditioning systems and hardware greater seniority in the issuer’s capital
RoRWA or Return on risk- remaining under the operational structure than subordinated debt. In the
weighted assets control of the Group are included in the event the issuer goes bankrupt, senior
Profit before tax for year as a reporting. This does not include energy debt theoretically must be repaid before
percentage of RWA. Profit may be used at outsourced data centre facilities other creditors receive any payment.
which are captured under Scope 3.
statutory or underlying and is
SICR or Significant increase in
specified where used. See ‘RWA’ and
Scope 3 emissions
‘Underlying earnings’. credit risk
Occur as a consequence of the Group’s
Assessed by comparing the risk of
RWA or Risk-weighted assets activities but arising from sources not default of an exposure at the reporting
controlled by the Group. Business air
A measure of a bank’s assets adjusted date to the risk of default at origination
travel data is collected as person
for their associated risks, expressed (after considering the passage of time).
kilometres travelled by seating class
as a percentage of an exposure value
in accordance with the applicable by employees of the Group. Data are Solo
drawn from country operations that
standardised or IRB approach The solo regulatory group as defined
have processes in place to gather
provisions. in the Prudential Regulation Authority
accurate employee air travel data from
waiver letter dated 10 August 2020
travel management companies. Flights
Risks-not-in-VaR (RNIV) differs from Standard Chartered Bank
are categorised as short, medium or
A framework for identifying and Company in that it includes the full
long haul trips. Emissions from other
quantifying marginal types of market consolidation of nine subsidiaries,
potential Scope 3 sources such as
risk that are not captured in the Value namely Standard Chartered Holdings
electricity transmission and distribution
at Risk (VaR) measure for any reason, (International) B.V., Standard Chartered
line losses are not currently accounted
such as being a far-tail risk or the MB Holdings B.V., Standard Chartered for on the basis that they cannot be
necessary historical market data UK Holdings Limited, Standard
calculated with an acceptable level of
not being available. Chartered Grindlays PTY Limited,
reliability or consistency. The Group does
SCMB Overseas Limited, Standard
however capture Scope 3 emissions from
Roll rate Chartered Capital Management
outsourced data centres managed by
Uses a matrix that gives average loan third parties. (Jersey) LLC, Cerulean Investments L.P.,
migration rate from delinquency SC Ventures Innovation Investment L.P.
states from period to period. A matrix Secured (fully and partially) and SC Ventures G.P. Limited.
multiplication is then performed to
A secured loan is a loan in which the Sovereign exposures
generate the final PDs by delinquency
borrower pledges an asset as collateral
bucket over different time horizons. Exposures to central governments
for a loan which, in the event that the
and central government departments,
borrower defaults, the Group is able to
Scope 1 emissions central banks and entities owned or
take possession of. All secured loans are
Arise from the consumption of energy considered fully secured if the fair value guaranteed by the aforementioned.
from direct sources during the use of of the collateral is equal to or greater Sovereign exposures, as defined by the
property occupied by the Group. On-site than the loan at the time of origination. European Banking Authority, include
combustion of fuels such as diesel, All other secured loans are considered only exposures to central governments.
liquefied petroleum gas and natural to be partly secured.
gas is recorded using meters or, where
Supplementary information Glossary
Stage 1 Sustainable Finance revenue Unbiased
Assets have not experienced a Revenue from clients whose activities Not overly optimistic or pessimistic,
significant increase in credit risk since are aligned with the Green and represents information that is not
origination and impairment recognised Sustainable Product Framework and/or slanted, weighted, emphasised,
on the basis of 12 months expected from transactions for which proceeds de-emphasised or otherwise
credit losses. will be utilised directly to contribute manipulated to increase the probability
towards eligible themes and activities that the financial information will be
Stage 2 set out within the Green and received favourably or unfavourably
Assets have experienced a significant Sustainable Product Framework and/or by users.
increase in credit risk since origination from approved ‘labelled’ transactions
and impairment is recognised on the such as any transaction referred to Unlikely to pay
basis of lifetime expected credit losses. as “green”, “social”, “sustainable”, Indications of unlikeliness to pay shall
“SDG (sustainable development goal) include placing the credit obligation on
Stage 3 aligned”, “ESG”, “transition”, “COVID-19 non-accrued status; the recognition of a
Assets that are in default and facility” or “COVID-19 response” which specific credit adjustment resulting from
considered credit-impaired (non- have been approved by the Sustainable a significant perceived decline in credit
performing loans). Finance Governance Committee. quality subsequent to the Group taking
on the exposure; selling the credit
Standardised approach Tier 1 capital obligation at a material credit-related
In relation to credit risk, a method The sum of Common Equity Tier 1 capital economic loss; the Group consenting to
for calculating credit risk capital and Additional Tier 1 capital. a distressed restructuring of the credit
requirements using External Credit obligation where this is likely to result
Assessment Institutions (ECAI) ratings Tier 1 capital ratio in a diminished financial obligation
and supervisory risk weights. In relation Tier 1 capital as a percentage of caused by the material forgiveness, or
to operational risk, a method of risk-weighted assets. postponement, of principal, interest or,
calculating the operational capital where relevant fees; filing for the
requirement by the application of a Tier 2 capital obligor’s bankruptcy or a similar order in
supervisory defined percentage charge Tier 2 capital comprises qualifying respect of an obligor’s credit obligation
to the gross income of eight specified subordinated liabilities and related to the Group; the obligor has sought or
business lines. share premium accounts. has been placed in bankruptcy or similar
protection where this would avoid or
Structured note TLAC or Total loss absorbing delay repayment of a credit obligation
An investment tool which pays a capacity to the Group.
return linked to the value or level of a An international standard for TLAC
VaR or Value at Risk
specified asset or index and sometimes issued by the FSB, which requires G-SIBs
offers capital protection if the value to have sufficient loss-absorbing and A quantitative measure of market risk
declines. Structured notes can be recapitalisation capacity available in estimating the potential loss that will
linked to equities, interest rates, funds, resolution, to minimise impacts on not be exceeded in a set time period at
commodities and foreign currency. financial stability, maintain the a set statistical confidence level.
continuity of critical functions and
Subordinated liabilities avoid exposing public funds to loss. ViU or Value-in-Use
Liabilities which, in the event of The present value of the future
insolvency or liquidation of the issuer, Transition risks expected cash flows expected to be
are subordinated to the claims of The risk of changes to market derived from an asset or CGU.
depositors and other creditors of dynamics or sectoral economics
Write-downs
the issuer. due to governments’ response to
climate change. After an advance has been identified
Sustainability Aspirations as impaired and is subject to an
A series of targets and metrics by which UK bank levy impairment provision, the stage may be
we aim to promote social and economic A levy that applies to certain UK banks reached whereby it is concluded that
development, and deliver sustainable and the UK operations of foreign banks. there is no realistic prospect of further
outcomes in the areas in which we can The levy is payable each year based on recovery. Write-downs will occur when,
make the most material contribution a percentage of the chargeable equities and to the extent that, the whole or part
to the delivery of the UN Sustainable and liabilities on the Group’s UK tax of a debt is considered irrecoverable.
Development Goals. resident entities’ balance sheets. Key
XVA
exclusions from chargeable equities and
Sustainable Finance assets liabilities include Tier 1 capital, insured The term used to incorporate credit,
Assets from clients whose activities are or guaranteed retail deposits, repos debit and funding valuation
aligned with the Green and Sustainable secured on certain sovereign debt and adjustments to the fair value of
Product Framework and/or from liabilities subject to netting. derivative financial instruments.
transactions for which the use of See ‘CVA’, ‘DVA’ and ‘FVA’.
proceeds will be utilised directly to
contribute towards eligible themes
and activities set out within the Green
and Sustainable Product Framework.
508 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2022
Designed and produced by Friend tracked at www.climatepartner.com, giving details of © Standard Chartered PLC. All rights reserved.
www.friendstudio.com the carbon offsetting process including information on
The STANDARD CHARTERED word mark, its logo device
the emissions volume and the carbon offset project
Printed by Park Communications a certified Carbon and associated product brand names are owned by
being supported.
Neutral print company. Standard Chartered PLC and centrally licensed to its
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% operating entities.
Park works to the EMAS standard and its Environmental
of press chemicals are recycled for further use and,
Management System is certified to ISO 14001. Registered Office: 1 Basinghall Avenue, London
on average 99% of any waste associated with this
EC2V 5DD. Telephone +44 (0) 20 7885 8888.
This publication has been manufactured using 100% production will be recycled and the remaining 1%
offshore wind electricity sourced from UK wind. used to generate energy. Principal place of business in Hong Kong: 32nd Floor,
4-4A Des Voeux Road, Central, Hong Kong.
This document is printed on Nautilus Superwhite
100% Recycled paper containing 100% recycled fibre. Registered in England No. 966425.
The FSC® label on this product ensures responsible use
of the world’s forest resources.
This is a certified climate neutral print product for
which carbon emissions have been calculated and
offset by supporting recognised carbon offset projects.
The carbon offset projects are audited and certified
according to international standards and demonstrably
reduce emissions. The climate neutral label includes a
unique ID number specific to this product which can be