Strategic report
We are a leading international
cross-border bank
Standard Chartered connects the world’s most dynamic markets,
serving the businesses that are the engines of global growth and
supporting people to meet their ambitions. Every day, we help
clients to manage and invest their finances safely and seamlessly,
and grow their businesses and wealth with confidence.
Over our 170 year history, and across a unique geographical footprint that
connects Asia, Africa and the Middle East to each other and the world,
we’ve built a bank like no other, with diverse capabilities and partnerships
that set us apart. Inspired by our brand promise, we are here for good.
Financial KPIs1 Non-financial KPIs2
Return on tangible equity Common Equity Tier 1 ratio Diversity and inclusion: women in senior roles4
10.1
%
14.1
%
32.5
%
240bps 10bps 0.4ppt
Underlying basis Above our 13-14 per cent target range
Mobilising Sustainable Finance $
8.4 Total shareholder return $87.2bn
%
160bps 9.4 $29.8bn
%
Reported basis 2022: 41.4%
Employee net promoter score (eNPS)
25.86
8.31 points
Other financial measures1, 3
Tangible net asset value
Operating income Profit before tax Earnings per share per ordinary share
$17,378 $5,678 128.9 $13.93
m m cents
13% 27% 31.0 cents 12%
Underlying basis Underlying basis Underlying basis
$18,019
m
$5,093
m
108.6
cents
10% 24% 22.7 cents
Reported basis Reported basis Reported basis
Stakeholders
Throughout this report, we use these icons to represent the different stakeholder groups for whom we create value.
Clients Regulators and Investors Suppliers Society Employees
governments
1 Reconciliations from underlying to reported and definitions of alternative performance measures can be found on pages 80 to 87
2 For more information on our culture of inclusion see page 24, and for more on our Sustainability Aspirations see page 66
3 Year-on-Year growth on Operating Income and Profit before tax is on constant currency basis
4 Senior leadership is defined as Managing Directors and Band 4 roles (including Management Team)
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 01
Strategic
report
In this report
Strategic report Sustainability review Risk review and Capital review
02 Who we are and what we do 92 Sustainability review 234 Risk profile
04 Where we operate 94 Sustainability Aspirations 298 Climate risk
06 Group Chairman’s statement 99 Sustainability Strategic Pillars 314 Enterprise Risk Management
10 Group Chief Executive’s review 120 Climate- and sustainability-related Framework
14 Key performance indicators governance 320 Principal risks
16 Market environment 125 Managing Environmental and 338 Capital review
20 Business model Social Risk
Financial statements
24 Our strategy 126 Managing Climate Risk
26 Our Stands 130 Integrity, conduct and ethics 346 Independent Auditor’s report
28 Client segment reviews 359 Financial statements
31 Regional reviews Directors’ report 366 Notes to the financial statements
34 G roup Chief Financial 136 G roup Chairman’s governance
Supplementary information
Officer’s review overview
44 Group Chief Risk Officer’s review 137 Board of Directors 490 Supplementary financial information
52 Stakeholders and Sustainability 142 Management Team 498 Supplementary people information
overview 145 Corporate governance 504 Supplementary sustainability
80 Underlying versus reported results 182 Directors’ remuneration report information
reconciliations 208 Additional remuneration disclosures 517 Shareholder information
86 Alternative performance measures 217 Other disclosures 521 Main awards and accolades in 2023
88 Viability statement 229 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 523 Glossary
Client segment Regional reviews
reviews
31
28 p
Group Chief Executive’s
p review
Our strategy 52
p
10
24
Stakeholders p
p
and Sustainability overview
About this report
Sustainability and ESG reporting index against the voluntary Global Reporting Initiative Unless another currency is specified, the word ‘dollar’ or symbol ‘$’
The Group includes Environmental, Social and (GRI) Universal Standards and select GRI Topic Standards, in this document means US dollar and the word ‘cent’ or symbol ‘c’
Governance (ESG) and sustainability information in this and the World Economic Forum Stakeholder Capitalism means one-hundredth of one US dollar. Disclosures in the
Annual Report, providing investors and stakeholders Metrics framework. Strategic report, Sustainability review, Directors’ report, Risk
w su i s th ta a in n a u b n il d it e y r - s r t e a la n t d e i d n g ri s o k f s t h a e n d im o p p l p ic o a r t t i u o n n i s t i o e f s , r e a l n e d va p n ro t gress The Group’s sustainability-related r u e n v a ie u w d i a te n d d u C n a le p s i s ta o l t r h e e v r ie w w is e a n st d a S te u d p . p U le n m le e s n s t c a o r n y t i e n x f t o r r e m q a u t i i r o e n s w ar i e th in
against our objectives. disclosures can be accessed via the document, ‘China’ refers to the People’s Republic of China
sc.com/sustainabilityhub and, for the purposes of this document only, excludes Hong Kong
We have observed our obligations under: (i) sections 414CA Special Administrative Region (Hong Kong), Macau Special
and 414CB of the UK Companies Act 2006; (ii) the UK’s Alternative performance measures Administrative Region (Macau) and Taiwan. ‘Korea’ or ‘South
Financial Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules in respect of The Group uses a number of alternative performance Korea’ refers to the Republic of Korea. Asia includes Australia,
climate-related disclosures; and (iii) the ESG Reporting measures in the discussion of its performance. These Bangladesh, Brunei, Cambodia, India, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia,
Guide contained in Appendix C2 to the Rules Governing measures exclude certain items which management Myanmar, Nepal, Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Thailand,
the Listing of Securities on the Stock Exchange of Hong believes are not representative of the underlying Vietnam, Mainland China, Hong Kong, Japan, Korea, Macau,
Kong Limited. We have made disclosures consistent with performance of the business and which distort Taiwan; Africa and Middle East (AME) includes Bahrain,
the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures period-on-period comparison. They provide the reader Botswana, Côte d’Ivoire, Egypt, Ghana, Iraq, Kenya, Mauritius,
(TCFD) recommendations and recommended disclosures with insight into how management measures the Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, South Africa,
throughout this Annual Report. performance of the business. Tanzania, UAE, Uganda, and Zambia; and Europe & Americas
(EA) include Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Falkland Islands, France,
In preparing this report we have given consideration to For more information on Standard Germany, Israel, Jersey, Poland, Sweden, Türkiye, the UK, and the
(but do not align in full with) the guidance provided by US. Within the tables in this report, blank spaces indicate that the
the International Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB) Chartered please visit sc.com number is not disclosed, dashes indicate that the number is zero
Standards finalised in 2023: IFRS S1 and IFRS S2, noting that All information presented in the Chairman, CEO and CFO and ‘nm’ stands for not meaningful. Standard Chartered PLC is
IFRS S2, although largely based on TCFD, requires a more statements are on an underlying basis unless otherwise incorporated in England and Wales with limited liability, and is
granular level of disclosure. IFRS S1 and S2 are voluntary stated. A reconciliation from underlying to reported and headquartered in London. The Group’s head office provides
standards and compliance is not yet required in the Group’s definitions of alternative performance measures can be guidance on governance and regulatory standards. Standard
listing locations. Additionally, we publish an ESG reporting found on pages 80 to 87. Chartered PLC. Stock codes are: LSE STAN.LN and HKSE 02888.
Strategic report Who we are
Who we are Our Purpose is to drive commerce and prosperity
through our unique diversity. We serve three client
and what we do segments in three regions, supported by eight
global functions.
Operating income
Our client segments
1. Corporate, Commercial & $11,218m
Institutional Banking
Underlying basis
Supporting clients with their transaction
3. 1. banking, financial markets, co4rp. orate 1fi.n ance $11,788m
and borrowing needs, Corporate, Commercial &
Reported basis
Institutional Banking provides solutions to nearly
3.
20,000 clients in the world’s fastest-growing
economies and most active trade corridors.
Total operating income
$17,378m 2. Consumer, Private $7,106m
& Business Banking
Underlying basis
Underlying basis Serving more than 11 million individuals and
$7,151m
small businesses, Consumer, Private & Business
Bankin2g. f ocuses on the affluent and emerging
Reported basis
$18,019m affluent in many of the world’s fastest-growing
e conomies.
Reported basis
3. Ventures $156m
2. Ventures promotes innovation, invests in Underlying basis
disruptive financial technology and explores
alternative business models. It represents a $156m
diverse portfolio of over 30 ventures and
m ore than 20 investments Reported basis
4. Central and other items $(1,102)m
Underlying basis
$(1,076)m
Reported basis
Enabling and supporting our businesses
Global functions Our client-facing businesses are supported by our global
functions, which work together to ensure the Group’s operations
run smoothly and consistently.
Conduct, Financial Crime Group Chief Financial Officer Legal
and Compliance Comprises seven support functions: Provides legal advice and support
Partners internally and externally to Finance, Treasury, Strategy, Investor to the Group to manage legal risks
achieve the highest standards in Relations, Corporate Development, and issues.
conduct and compliance to enable Supply Chain Management and
Risk
a sustainable business and to fight Property. The leaders of these
financial crime. functions report directly to the Responsible for the overall second-
Group Chief Financial Officer. line-of-defence responsibilities related
Corporate Affairs, Brand to risk management, which involves
and Marketing Group Internal Audit oversight and challenge of risk
Manages the Group’s marketing and An independent function whose management actions of the first line.
communications and engagement primary role is to help the Board
Transformation, Technology
with stakeholders to promote and and Management Team protect the
& Operations
protect the Group’s reputation, brand assets, reputation and sustainability
and services. of the Group. Responsible for leading bank-wide
transformation and for reshaping
Human Resources the Group’s systems and technology
Maximises the value of investment platforms to ensure we provide robust,
in people through recruitment, responsive, and innovative technology
development and employee and digital solutions. Also manages all
engagement. client operations, seeking to provide an
optimal client service and experience
across the board.
02 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 07
Strategic
report
During 2023, the Group continued to improve profitability, Firstly, we will continue to rely on our stronger capabilities to
delivering on our objective to achieve a double-digit return on further enhance returns in our Corporate, Commercial &
tangible equity (RoTE) for the full year. Our high-growth Institutional Banking and Consumer, Private & Business
markets, where we are intent on making further investment, Banking businesses, with a focus on driving income growth in
continue to deliver strongly despite an uncertain picture for high-returning areas. Secondly, we will improve operational
the global economy. leverage within the Group, addressing structural inefficiencies
and complexities whilst protecting income. Finally, we will
This performance came against a backdrop of rising interest
continue to return substantial capital to shareholders. This
rates in many large economies, which undoubtedly gave a
year, we are pleased to be able to provide an increased
strong tailwind for the business. However, it is also a product
full-year dividend of 27 cents per share and are announcing
of our clear strategy, discipline and tireless execution – a
a further share buyback of $1 billion.
significant achievement for our colleagues, led by our Group
Chief Executive, Bill Winters, and his Management Team. Alongside the importance of delivering improved financial
Their skills and dedication remain essential to our performance, our Purpose and brand promise to be here for
performance, and my deepest thanks go to all of them. good remain cornerstones of our business. We are keenly
aware of our role in supporting our clients and communities
We have recently bid a fond farewell to Andy Halford, who
as they anticipate and respond to economic and social
formally stepped down as Group Chief Financial Officer on
challenges. This is why we remain true to our Stands –
3 January 2024. Since his arrival in the role in 2014, Andy has
Accelerating Zero, Resetting Globalisation and Lifting
been a much-valued colleague and friend and made a
Participation – which are delivered through the execution
phenomenal contribution by helping to steer the business
of our strategy, and which give us an active framework for
through a challenging external environment. Under his watch
positive impact across our footprint.
we strengthened our foundations, reset our risk appetite and
redefined the Group’s strategy. He leaves with our very best We updated our net zero roadmap in April 2023, committing
wishes, and will continue in an advisory role until his retirement to an absolute emissions target and trajectory for the oil
in August. It is with pleasure that we welcome Diego De Giorgi and gas sector. In this year’s Annual Report, we disclose the
who joins us as Andy’s successor. I am looking forward to targets and science-based methodologies for our financed
working closely with Diego and Bill to drive further excellence emissions in 11 of the 12 high-emitting sectors identified as
for clients and higher value for shareholders. decarbonisation priorities by the Net Zero Banking Alliance,
demonstrating our commitment to support the transition of
Advancing our strategic and financial goals the real-world economy.
I have said before that our objective is to grow income in a We have also recently announced our decision to become an
strong, safe and sustainable manner, while maintaining both early adopter of the Taskforce on Nature-related Financial
cost and capital discipline, and I am delighted to say that was Disclosures, highlighting the rising importance of nature and
the case last year. We are confident that our improved RoTE, biodiversity as a necessary consideration in sustainability.
which reached 10.1 per cent in 2023, will be a milestone on the Given that our footprint represents some of the most complex
way to further long-term success for the Group, underpinned and diverse natural capital in the world, working across our
by strong performance across the business. We grew income business and with our clients to preserve, restore and enhance
13 per cent on a constant currency basis while maintaining a nature is critically important.
strong capital and liquidity position and positive income-to-
It is my honour to be able to act as a voice for our Stands on
cost jaws. We expect our RoTE to steadily increase from
behalf of the Group as Co-Chair of the United Nations’ Global
10 per cent, and are targeting 12 per cent in 2026 and to
Investors for Sustainable Development Alliance, as well as at
progress thereafter.
various global platforms and by engaging with stakeholders
The strength of our financial performance affirms that the across our markets.
strategy that we set out in 2021 is working. We remain
focused on investment in high-growth markets and have Driving higher standards
made significant progress against our strategic priorities
The Board remains committed to firmly embedding a
across Network, Affluent, Mass Retail, and Sustainability.
culture of excellence across the organisation, building high
I am acutely aware of the underperformance of our share standards through a ‘one bank’ culture of ambition, action
price in recent months, which I believe does not reflect and accountability that puts our clients at the heart of all
the progress we are making. Both the Board and the we do. We are at our best when we harness the full talent
Management Team are absolutely focused on delivering and potential of the diverse markets in which we operate.
sustained, long-term value for our shareholders. I believe our
Both the Board and the Management Team are dedicated to
solid performance in 2023 gives us a good base from which to
maintaining our status as an employer of choice. That means
do this. As Bill details in the following pages, we have further
offering our colleagues a variety of ways to build their skillset,
sharpened the actions we will take to accelerate performance
attracting the best talent through our doors with a diverse set
and future growth.
of career paths within the Group and progressive employee
policies, such as the standardised parental leave announced
last year.
‘We remain focused on investment
As the world continues to change around us, we also
in high-growth markets and have
recognise the ongoing importance of technology and
made significant progress against continuous improvement in maintaining our competitive
edge, and in building an innovation-led culture that
our strategic priorities’
allows colleagues to try new things within an effective
and comprehensive risk management framework. We are
intent on capturing the benefits of new, game-changing
technologies like artificial intelligence, whilst protecting
the information and financial security of our clients.
Strategic report Group Chairman’s statement
Group Chairman’s statement
continued
It has been an extremely active year for the Board, with Looking ahead with confidence
frequent in-depth briefings on geopolitical, cyber and
We expect to see a ‘soft landing’ for the world economy in
sectoral risks, and a sharp focus on corporate governance.
2024. This is no small achievement as we have witnessed the
We continue to build out our resilience in both the financial
most aggressive period of monetary policy tightening in
and non-financial dimensions of risk and compliance across
decades. This, plus other favourable supply side developments
our varied markets. This gives us the confidence to achieve
have led to a fall in inflation in most countries, engendering
our strategic goals and act decisively to grasp new
expectations of official interest rate cuts in many economies
business opportunities.
this year. Growth, in turn, remains resilient, with emerging
We continue to maintain a diverse range of skillsets and markets expected to keep growing considerably faster
backgrounds on our Board. Jasmine Whitbread, a long- than developed economies, and Asia continuing to lead
standing director and impactful former chair of the Culture global growth.
and Sustainability Committee, stepped down from the
However, one cannot be complacent about the years ahead.
Board at last year’s AGM. As announced on 16 February
The ‘last mile’ of inflation may prove stickier than expected,
2024, Gay Huey Evans will step down from the Board with
and geopolitical risks abound. As we begin 2024, the war
effect from 29 February 2024 after serving nine years and
between Ukraine and Russia continues, increasing uncertainty
contributing significantly to the Board and its Committees,
for nations in Europe and elsewhere. We see renewed conflict
especially as Chair of the former Board Financial Crime Risk
in the Middle East, bringing tragedy to many communities
Committee. Carlson Tong, another much-valued Board
and disruption to the Red Sea, a key chokepoint in global
member, will step down from the Board on 9 May 2024,
supply chains.
ahead of the AGM. I would like to thank Jasmine, Gay and
Carlson for their many contributions during their time with us. 2024 is also a year of major elections in the United States,
India and probably the United Kingdom, as well as other
On 16 February 2024, we announced that Diane Jurgens
markets in our footprint. These all have the potential to affect
will join the Board from 1 March 2024. Diane is a highly
the economic situation.
experienced and respected technologist who will bring
significant technology and transformation expertise and With so much at stake, we must take care not to needlessly
insight to the Board having operated across a variety of damage the means of growth and wealth creation. I have
sectors and the Group’s key markets. frequently spoken in defence of open, rules-based trade
as a lynchpin of global economic growth. This year, the
Our dynamic markets challenges around it remain powerful, with the risk of further
fragmentation.
In 2023 I continued to spend time across our markets, seeing
their dynamism first-hand and experiencing the ambition of I believe the system of global trade that has been created
our colleagues as they work together for greater growth. with such care over many decades is one of humanity’s
foremost achievements. It is not perfect by any means, but
Guided by our Purpose – to drive commerce and prosperity
it has arguably brought more opportunity and prosperity to
through our unique diversity – we are investing heavily in
a greater number of people than any other force in history.
fast-growing economies and trade corridors in Asia, Africa
Like every intricate system, it is easy to damage and hard
and the Middle East, and bringing innovative digital products
to rebuild. Safeguarding and making it more inclusive and
to new clients. A good example of this is Solv, our e-commerce
sustainable requires constant vigilance and cooperation from
platform for small and medium-size enterprises. We’re also
policymakers, legislators, and the private sector in an evolved,
positioning ourselves to be a positive force in the expansion of
modernised multilateral system.
sectors that will deliver a more sustainable global economy,
like renewables and electric vehicles. While the external landscape remains uncertain, we are
confident that we are well positioned to navigate the
I’m more confident than ever that we are investing in the
challenges and seize the opportunities ahead. Our results
right places for strong, safe and sustainable growth, and in
in 2023 show we are doing just that. We remain focused on
our role as a connector bank in an ever more complex and
continuing to deliver excellence for our clients, and sustained
fragmenting world. We provide our clients with the right
value for shareholders, in 2024 and beyond.
solutions gained from deep experience of our markets, and
continue to be a trusted partner for them as they look to seize
opportunities across our footprint.
‘I’m more confident than ever
that we’re investing in the right
Dr José Viñals
places for strong, safe and
Group Chairman
sustainable growth, and in our role
23 February 2024
as a connector bank in an ever
more complex, fragmenting world’
08 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 11
Strategic
report
We produced strong results in 2023, demonstrating the value • Our dedicated Chief Sustainability Office unit acts as a
of our franchise and delivering our target to push past the centre of excellence and a catalyst for the execution of the
10 per cent Return on Tangible Equity (‘RoTE’) milestone. But Group-wide Sustainability strategy and the achievement
10 per cent is not the extent of our ambition. We have the right of our net zero roadmap, further details of which are set out
strategy, business model and intent to build on this momentum. in the Annual Report. Our Sustainable Finance franchise
We have set out clear actions to deliver sustainably higher generated over $0.7 billion income in 2023, a year-on-year
returns, with RoTE increasing steadily from 10 per cent, growth rate of 42 per cent and we are well on our way to
targeting 12 per cent in 2026, and to progress thereafter. deliver a billion dollars in income by 2025. We have mobilised
$87 billion of sustainable finance since the beginning of
Full year 2023 income of $17.4 billion was up 13 per cent on a
2021, making good progress as we advance towards our
constant currency basis, benefitting not only from rising interest
$300 billion target by 2030
rates but also encouraging underlying business momentum.
Good cost discipline has enabled us to generate significantly
Great execution on our 2022 strategic actions
positive income-to-cost jaws of 4 per cent for the year, even
with continued underlying investment. Loan impairment We set out five actions in 2022 designed to accelerate delivery
declined, primarily due to reduced impairments from China of double-digit RoTE. The strong execution of these actions over
commercial real estate and sovereign risks, with the overall the last two years, where we have either achieved our targets
portfolio remaining resilient. All this has helped us grow ahead of plan or they are well on track, has enabled us to reach
underlying profit before tax 27 per cent year-on-year, to that milestone in 2023.
$5.7 billion, the highest level for ten years.
• We are ahead of schedule to drive improved returns in
We remain highly liquid and strongly capitalised. We finished Corporate, Commercial & Institutional Banking (‘CCIB’). We
the year with a Common Equity Tier 1 (‘CET1’) ratio of 14.1 per targeted around 160 basis points improvement in income
cent, above the top of our target range, allowing us to increase return on risk-weighted assets (‘IRoRWA’) to 6.5 per cent in
our full year ordinary dividend by 50 per cent to 27 cents per 2024. The team exceeded this target in 2023, delivering an
share. We undertook in February 2022 to return over $5 billion IRoRWA of 7.8 per cent. This was driven by particularly strong
to shareholders by the end of 2024. With this full year dividend growth in income from Financial Institution clients, which now
and the $1 billion share buyback announced today, we will have accounts for 49 per cent of CCIB income, delivering close to
exceeded that target well ahead of schedule. the 50 per cent target one year early. The team has also
successfully executed $24 billion in risk-weighted assets
As we start the new year, I would like to take a moment to
optimisation over the last two years, exceeding the target
thank my friend and much valued colleague, Andy Halford,
of $22 billion. The completion of the sale of the Aviation
who decided to retire this year. Andy has been a great partner
Finance business also created further capacity for CCIB to
to me and the Board and has successfully helped steer the
grow higher returning business
Group over the last ten years. I’d also like to extend a warm
welcome to Diego De Giorgi as he takes over as the Group • We are also ahead of our 2024 target to transform
Chief Financial Officer. Diego brings with him over 30 years of profitability in Consumer, Private and Business Banking
financial services experience and I am sure he will continue to (‘CPBB’). The team has achieved its 60 per cent cost-to-
build on the progress we have made. income target one year ahead of plan, with a nine-
percentage point improvement in 2023. They have delivered
Our strategy is driving success $0.4 billion of structural expense savings from rationalising
the branch network, process re-engineering, headcount
Our strategy is designed to deliver our Purpose: to drive
efficiencies and further automation
commerce and prosperity through our unique diversity. We set
out four strategic priorities in early 2021: continue to grow our • We have continued to seize the China opportunity, with our
Network and Affluent client businesses, return to growth in China-related business performing well, despite post-COVID
Mass Retail and advance on all fronts of our Sustainability domestic recovery tracking below expectations. We set a
agenda. We are making good progress in every area. target of doubling the operating profit before tax of our
onshore and offshore China business by the end of 2024
• Income from our cross-border Network business grew
and we almost achieved that in 2023, generating $1.3 billion.
31 per cent in 2023, with standout growth rates in our
This was driven primarily by offshore-related income, which
China offshore corridors to the Middle East and ASEAN,
delivers significantly higher returns, growing 42 per cent.
up 67 per cent and 53 per cent respectively
Our onshore income, despite the domestic headwinds, grew
• We increased the total number of Affluent clients to 4 per cent. Looking forward, we continue to be confident
2.3 million. This helped drive significantly higher levels of in the long-term opportunities that China re-opening will
net new money in 2023, with net inflows of $29 billion, generate for our unique franchise
up 50 per cent, year-on-year, and deliver 24 per cent growth
• We continued to create operational leverage, and are on
in income from this client segment
track to deliver the three-year $1.3 billion expense savings
• We grew our Mass Retail client base by over 1 million to target, which has helped us absorb inflationary pressure
9.5 million. We have continued to grow our digital banks, and continue to invest. Our cost-to-income ratio is down
Mox in Hong Kong and Trust in Singapore. They remain two 7 percentage points since the end of 2021 to 63 per cent for
of the fastest growing digital banks globally and underline 2023, so we are well advanced towards our target of around
our ability to partner and launch differentiated customer 60 per cent by 2024
propositions. The Mass Retail business also serves a valuable
• Our equity generation and discipline on risk-weighted assets
strategic purpose as a pipeline for future Affluent clients,
this year have created capacity for us to continue to deliver
with 224,000 of our Mass Retail clients moving up to Affluent
substantial shareholder distributions. With the final ordinary
clients in 2023
share dividend for 2023 and a new $1 billion share buyback
programme starting imminently, means we are well ahead
of our total target of returning in excess of $5 billion by the
end of 2024. We will continue to actively manage the Group’s
capital position with the target of a further capital return of
at least $5 billion over the next three years
Strategic
report
Alignment to remuneration Annual incentive is based on measurable
Reward for all Group employees, including executive performance criteria linked to the Group’s strategy
directors, continues to be aligned to the Group’s strategic and assessed over a period of one year.
priorities, through our annual and long-term incentive LTIP awards are granted to senior executives who have
scorecards. Our approach to remuneration is consistent the ability to influence the long-term performance
for all employees and is designed to create alignment with of the Group. Awards are performance dependent
our Fair Pay Charter, which applies globally. However, our based on measurable, long-term criteria.
pay structures may vary according to location (to comply
Read more in our Directors’ Remuneration Report
with local requirements). Variable remuneration falls into
on pages 182 to 216
two categories: annual incentive and a long-term incentive
plan (LTIP) which are aligned to the KPIs indicated:
Non-financial KPIs
Diversity and inclusion:
Alignment to Alignment to
Women in senior roles1 % remuneration Mobilisation of Sustainable Finance1,2 $ remuneration
+0.4 +$29.8
ppt bn
2023 32.5% 2023 $87.2bn^
2022 32.1% 2022 $57.4bn
2021 30.7% 2021 The Group announced this target in Q4 2021.
2020 29.5%
2019 28.5%
Aim Increase representation of women in senior leadership Aim Cumulative progress towards $300 billion mobilisation
roles¹ to 35 per cent by 2025. target between 2021 and 2030.
Progress in 2023 In 2023, the proportion of senior leadership Progress in 2023 We made strong progress against this
roles occupied by women has increased to 32.5 per cent. target during the year, see more on page 94.
This is up by 0.4 percentage points from December 2022
1 Defined as any investment or financial service provided to clients which
(32.1 per cent) and 7 percentage points since December 2016 supports: (i) the preservation, and/or improvement of biodiversity, nature or
(25.3 per cent). the environment; (ii) the long-term avoidance/decrease of GHG emissions,
including the alignment of a client’s business and operations with a
1 Senior leadership is defined as Managing Director and Band 4 roles 1.5 degree Celsius trajectory (known as transition finance); (iii) a social
(including Management Team). purpose ; or (iv) incentivising our clients to meet their own sustainability
objectives (known as sustainability-linked finance)
2 Figures reflect cumulative Sustainable Finance mobilised since January
2021 up to September of each year. Values noted with a caret symbol (^)
are subject to independent limited assurance by EY, report available at
sc.com/sustainabilityhub.
Alignment to
Employee net promoter score (eNPS)1 remuneration
+8.31
points
Aim Improve the overall employee experience across the
2023 25.86
Group by creating a better work environment for our
colleagues that should translate into an improved client
2022 17.55
experience.
2021 12.94 Progress in 2023 The eNPS score is up by 8.31 points to 25.86,
which is our highest ever score.
2020 17.51
1 eNPS ranges from -100 to +100 and is based on a single question which
measures whether colleagues would recommend working for the Bank.
2019 11.51 It is calculated by deducting percentage of detractors from percentage
of promoters.
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 15
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 21
Strategic
report
How we are shaping our future
What makes us different
We have progressed strongly
Our Purpose is to drive commerce and prosperity through in delivering our strategy
our unique diversity – this is underpinned by our brand
to accelerate returns.
promise, here for good. Our Stands – aimed at tackling
some of the world’s biggest issues – Accelerating Zero, In 2022, we set out to uplift our return on tangible
equity (RoTE) to 10% by 2024. In 2023, we have
Lifting Participation and Resetting Globalisation (see
improved our RoTE to 10.1%, with strong progress in
page 26 for more) challenge us to use our unique position delivering against the five strategic actions we set
out to accelerate our returns:
articulated below.
• Driving improved returns in CCIB: income return
on risk weighted assets further enhanced to 7.8%
Client focus
(20221: 6.2%) and plan to reduce $22bn of risk
weighted assets between 2022 and 2024 fully
Our clients are our business.
delivered early during the year
We build long-term
relationships through trusted • Transforming profitability in CPBB: cost-to-income
ratio further improved to 60% (20221: 69%),
advice, expertise and best-in-
supported by the continuous delivery of business
class capabilities.
savings and digitisation programme
• Seizing opportunities in China: China onshore
and offshore profit before tax grown to $1.3bn
(increased 1.6 times vs. 20221), despite recent
market challenges
Distinct
• Creating operational leverage by delivering $1.3bn
proposition of sustainable cost saves over 2022–2024: $0.4bn
of cost saves in 2023, bringing 2022–2023 total
Our understanding of our to $0.9bn
markets and our extensive • Delivering sustainable shareholder distributions
international network in excess of $5bn over 2022–2024: $2.7bn total
allow us to offer a tailored distributions for 2023, bringing 2022–2023 total to
proposition to our clients, $4.5bn; plus a new $1bn share buyback programme
starting imminently in 2024.
combining global expertise
and local knowledge. We have further optimised our businesses and
footprint. In 2023, we completed the sale of our
Aviation Finance leasing business. For the seven
Robust risk Africa and Middle East (AME) markets and two
additional AME CPBB businesses we announced to
management exit in 2022, we have completed the sale of our Jordan
business and closed our Lebanon representative
We are here for the long term. office, and have signed binding agreements for the
Effective risk management divestment of the remainder.
allows us to grow a sustainable
The significant progress we have made on our
business. strategic agenda has provided us with a strong
platform to grow and drive sustainably higher returns.
We target RoTE to increase steadily from 10%,
targeting 12% in 2026 and to progress thereafter.
Key actions for the next three years include:
Sustainable • Continue to deliver strong income growth targeting
5-7% income growth CAGR2 for the next three years
and responsible
• Improving operational leverage through the Fit for
business Growth programme, to simplify, standardise and
digitise key elements of the Group, enabling the
We are committed to
Group to keep annual operating expenses below
sustainable social and $12bn in 2026
economic development
• Continuing active management of the Group’s
across our business,
capital position, with the target of a further capital
operations and communities. return of at least $5bn over the next three years.
1 2022 figures restated for the removal of (i) exit markets and businesses in AME (ii) Aviation
Finance and (iii) Debit Valuation Adjustment (DVA)
2 Compound Annual Growth Rate
Strategic report Business model
Business model
continued
The sources of value we rely on
We aim to use our resources in a sustainable way How we are enhancing our resources
to achieve the goals of our strategy.
• Upskilling and reskilling our people continues to be
Human capital
a priority – more than 30,000 colleagues undertook
Diversity differentiates us. Delivering learning in 2023 to build future-ready skills, including in
sustainable finance, data and analytics, digital, cyber
our Purpose rests on how we continue
security, and leadership.
to invest in our people, the employee
• We continue to strengthen a work environment that
experience we further enhance, and
supports inclusion, innovation, and high performance,
the culture we strengthen. with an ongoing focus on wellbeing. This includes
further embedding flexible working across our
markets, providing enhanced benefits, and building
the capabilities of our people leaders.
International network
• Across our international network, we are investing
Our network is our unique competitive in capabilities such as digital channels and client
experiences to access new high-growth segments,
advantage and connects companies,
grow our share of wallet with existing clients and
institutions and individuals to, and in,
create new business model opportunities.
some of the world’s fastest-growing
• We are strengthening our Transaction Banking, Financial
and most dynamic regions. Markets and Sustainable Finance solutions in CCIB and
Wealth Management offerings in CPBB to meet the
needs of our cross-border clients across our network.
• We continue to enhance our product, advisory and
Local expertise digital capabilities to serve our individual clients. In
2023, we launched more than 20 new digital wealth
We are deeply rooted in our markets
capabilities, made our Signature Chief Investment Office
with a strong understanding of key
(CIO) funds available in 12 markets and launched new
economic drivers, offering us insights digital loan partnerships.
that help our clients achieve their • In Business Banking, we continued to support the growth
ambitions. of small and medium-sized enterprises by making digital
loan origination available in five markets and expanding
the SC Women’s International Network, our offering for
women entrepreneurs, to five markets.
• In 2023, we continued to invest in our brand through
Brand recognition Consumer client our ‘Possibilities are Everywhere’ global advertising
campaign, highlighting our distinctive brand promise to
satisfaction metric1
We are a leading international be here for good and showcasing how we help people,
banking group with 170 years of companies and communities grow and prosper across
56.6 our international network.
history. In many of our markets,
%
we are a household name. • We have been successful in leveraging our brand and
insights to support business growth. Media sentiment
2022: 49.8% towards the Group continued to exceed the average for
the banking sector and ranked top three in most of our
key markets over 2023.
• Our capital position remains strong, with a CET1 ratio
Financial strength CET1 capital of 14.1% at the end of 2023, above the target range of
13–14 per cent.
With $823bn in assets on our balance
sheet, we are a strong and trusted $34 • We continue to maintain a strong and resilient funding
bn profile, with a Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) of 145% and
partner for our clients.
a Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR) of 138% at the end
of 2023.
• We are maintaining momentum on simplification and
Technology harmonisation of our technology estate, integrating
platforms using the cloud where appropriate, and
Our strong digital foundations and
investing in our engineering capabilities and best-in-
leading technological capabilities class tools to provide secure and resilient technology.
continue to enable a data-driven • We are accelerating automation to optimise our
digital bank that delivers world-class technology stack and enhancing the end-to-end
client service. delivery from requirements to deployment via a
new, single platform that enables our colleagues to
collaborate on technology projects in a consistent and
efficient manner.
• We have continued delivering value to our clients
by improving speed to market, as enabled by more
1 Excludes CCIB and Business Banking clients. efficient and scalable technology development and
1 EInxcclluuddeess P CrCivIaBt, ep Briavantkein bga. nRke satnadte bdu fsoinr e2s0s2 b2anking clients
delivery processes.
22 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 23
Strategic
report
Read more on stakeholder
engagement on pages 54 to 64
The value we create
We aim to create long-term value for a broad range of stakeholders in a sustainable way.
Clients Suppliers
We deliver banking solutions for our clients across our We engage diverse suppliers, locally and globally,
network, both digitally and in person. We help individuals to provide efficient and sustainable goods and
grow their wealth while connecting corporates and services for our business.
financial institutions to opportunities across our network.
Total active Total CCIB and Business
individual clients1 Banking clients1 Total spend in 2023 Active suppliers
11.8m 226,000 $4.5 11,600
bn
20222: 10.4m 20222: 232,000 2022: $4.3bn 2022: 11,700
Employees Regulators and governments
We believe that great employee experience drives great We play our part in supporting the effective functioning
client experience. We want all our people to pursue their of the financial system and the broader economy by
ambitions, deliver with purpose and have a rewarding proactively engaging with public authorities and by
career enabled by great people leaders. paying our taxes.
Senior appointments Employees committed Corporate Taxes and Bank
which are internal to our success Levy paid in 2023
60 97 $1,476
% % m
2022: 67% 2022: 96% 20223: $926m
Society Investors
We strive to operate as a sustainable and responsible We aim to deliver robust returns and long-term
company, working with local partners to promote social sustainable value for our investors.
and economic development.
Community investment Dividends declared in 2023 Share buy-backs in 2023
$68.6 $728 $2.0
m m bn
2022: $51.3m 2022: $523m 2022: $1.3bn
1 Excluding customers served or supported by Ventures segment
2 2022 figures restated for the removal of (i) exit markets and businesses in AME and (ii) Aviation Finance
3 2022 restated to include bank levy
Strategic report Strategy
Our strategy Over the past year, we have executed strongly against our
strategy, with a considerable uplift in our return on tangible
equity (RoTE) delivered.
We continue to focus on:
To become a
• Four strategic priorities: Network business, Affluent client
business, Mass Retail business, and Sustainability
leader in global
• Three critical enablers: People and Culture, Ways of
Working, and Innovation.
finance
While the macroeconomic and industry environments
continue to evolve, we believe the strategy remains fit for
the Bank.
Our strategic priorities and enablers will continue to be
supported by our three Stands: Accelerating Zero, Lifting
Participation and Resetting Globalisation (please find more
details of our Stands on page 26).
Critical enablers
People Ways of Working Innovation
and Culture
We invest in our people by building We drive client-centricity with a focus We embed innovation through
future-ready skills, providing a on speed to value for our clients. digitising our core, leveraging
differentiated employee experience, We are improving our operating partnerships to drive scale and
and strengthening our inclusive and rhythm and organisational agility extended reach, and building new
innovative culture. We do this by: while empowering our people to business models through ventures.
continuously improve the way
• Embedding our refreshed We continue to focus on:
we work.
approach to performance, reward
• Modernising and strengthening
and recognition that puts greater We continue strong progress on:
our technology estate and data
focus on ambition, collaboration,
• Simplifying and transforming management
and innovation
the way we invest, operate
• Exploring and experimenting
• Increasing re-skilling and upskilling and execute
to enhance client experience,
towards future roles and work,
• Harnessing operational efficiencies develop new platforms and
aligned with our business strategy
to help us continue the drive of improve operational resilience
and workforce’s aspirations
commerce and prosperity in
• Leveraging partnerships to
• Strengthening leadership our markets
access new clients and strengthen
capability through modernised
• Enhancing the way we deliver and our capabilities
development programmes and
manage change across the Bank,
measurement platforms • Building, launching, and scaling
anchored around simplifying our
innovative ventures while driving
• Focusing on wellbeing to enhance processes end-to-end.
ventures’ collaboration with the
resilience, productivity and
broader Bank and its clients.
performance, as well as offering
progressive, purpose-led benefits
• Further embedding flexible
working across our footprint,
with over 52,000 employees in
44 markets now on agreed
flexi-working arrangements.
Percentage of revenue
Culture of inclusion score Speed to value1 from new businesses3
83.2 150 36
% %
days
2022: 83.1% 2022: 160 days 2022: 22%
Women in senior roles Consumer client satisfaction metric2
32.5 56.6
% %
2022: 32.1% 2022: 49.8%
1 Speed to value measures the time taken to deliver a change from ideation till customer go-live and is based on the weighted average of lead time across
Corporate, Commercial and Institutional Banking (CCIB) and Consumer, Private and Business Banking (CPBB) businesses.
2 Excludes CCIB and Business Banking clients. Includes Private Banking. Restated for 2022.
3 Income from digital initiatives, innovation and transformation of the core, the majority of which will come from new and upgraded platforms and partnerships.
Also includes Sustainable Finance income and 100 per cent of Ventures income.
24 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 25
Strategic
report
Strategic priorities
Network business Affluent client business
Through our unique network, we enable global trade and We offer comprehensive solutions, personalised advice,
investment through financing, payments, asset origination and exceptional client experiences to help our Affluent
and risk management, with an increasing focus on clients manage and grow their wealth, at home and abroad.
Sustainable Finance.
As a leading international wealth manager, we are
Our on-the-ground presence and capabilities in more than strengthening our competitive advantage by:
50 markets give us an advantage in advice and deal execution
• Unlocking the value of our network, leveraging our wealth
for corporates and financial institutions by:
hubs in Hong Kong, Singapore, UAE and Jersey to deliver
• Helping our clients seize opportunities in shifting supply chains, a seamless global proposition and client experience with
tapping into existing and emerging trade and investment wealth, advisory and digital capabilities
corridors such as intra-Asia, and supporting our European • Maximising synergies across our client portfolios and the Bank
and American clients’ access to emerging markets assets by nurturing clients up the Affluent client continuum with our
• Continuously improving client experience with market- deep local expertise and differentiated propositions, and by
leading digital platforms that allow seamless onboarding, partnering with CCIB to offer solutions such as real estate and
client servicing and application programming interface (API) acquisition financing to ultra-high-net-worth clients
connectivity • Delivering expert advice and digital-first wealth solutions via
• Developing differentiated propositions in high-returning, high- an open architecture approach, supported by investments in
growth sectors such as Technology, Media & Telecom (TMT), innovation and scalable platforms.
Healthcare, Cleantech and Electric Vehicles.
Percentage of CCIB
CCIB network income transactions digitally initiated Affluent client income Active Affluent clients
$6.9 65.7 $4.6 2.3m
bn % bn
20221: $5.2bn 2022: 61.5% 20222: $3.7bn 20222: 2.1m
Mass Retail business Sustainability
Mass Retail is strategically important to our client We aim to support the sustainable economic and social
continuum. It demonstrates our deep local expertise, development of our markets, helping people to thrive long-term.
commitment to and relevance in the markets where we operate.
In line with our Stands, we are committed to accelerating the
Besides providing a continuous stream of clients who become transition to net zero, lifting participation in the economy and
more affluent over time, Mass Retail underscores our resetting globalisation. Our focus includes:
commitment to lifting participation in the communities we serve.
• Continuing to scale our sustainable and transition finance
Our focus is on: business by integrating sustainability as a core component of
our value proposition and enhancing our suite of Sustainable
• Continuing the pivot towards a digital-first model to become
Finance products and solutions across CCIB and CPBB
more personalised, relevant and real-time
• Progressing on our pathway to achieve net zero financed
• Sharpening our onboarding and engagement capabilities
emissions by 2050, including setting interim 2030 targets for
through digital sales and marketing, advanced analytics
additional high-emitting sectors and enhancing our existing
capabilities and straight-through self-service
climate risk governance and management processes
• Launching and developing new business models with
• Contributing our skills, experience and networks to initiatives
leading global and regional partners to leverage synergies in
and coalitions that aim to further develop the global
distribution, digital capabilities and risk management to serve
sustainability ecosystem
customers at scale.
• Seeking to partner with our clients and communities to
mobilise social capital and drive economic inclusion and
entrepreneurship through our Futuremakers global initiative.
Active Mass retail Percentage of digital Cumulative Sustainable Sustainable Finance
clients sales for Retail Products Finance mobilised since 20213 income in 20236
9.5m 56 $87bn4 $720
% m
20222: 8.3m 2022: 48% 2022: $57bn5 2022: $508m
1 2022 figures restated for removal of (i) exit markets and business in Africa and Middle East (AME) and (ii) Aviation Finance.
2 2022 figures restated for removal of exit markets and business in AME.
3 Defined as any investment or financial service provided to clients which supports: (i) the preservation and/or improvement of biodiversity, nature or the
environment; (ii) the long-term avoidance/decrease of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, including alignment of a client’s business and operations with
a 1.5 degrees Celsius trajectory (known as transition finance); (iii) a social purpose; or (iv) incentivises clients to meet their own sustainability objectives
(known as sustainability-linked finance).
4 January 2021 to September 2023 cumulative progress towards $300 billion mobilisation target by 2030.
5 January 2021 to September 2022 cumulative progress towards $300 billion mobilisation target by 2030.
6 Defined as income generated from Sustainable Finance products as listed in the Green and Sustainable Product Framework. For further information, please refer
to pages 99 to 101.
Strategic report Our Stands
Our Stands
Climate change, stark inequality and the unfair aspects
of globalisation impact us all. We’re taking a stand
by setting long-term ambitions on these issues where
they matter most. This works in unison with our strategy,
stretching our thinking, our action and our leadership
to accelerate our growth.
Accelerating Lifting Resetting
Zero Participation Globalisation
The world must reach net zero carbon Inequality, along with gaps in economic Globalisation has lifted millions out
emissions by 2050 to limit the worst inclusion, mean that many young of poverty but left many behind.
effects of climate change. This will people, women, and small businesses We advocate for a new model of
require efforts across stakeholder struggle to gain access to the financial globalisation based on transparency
groups to accelerate the transition to a system to save for their futures and to to build trust, renew confidence and
low-carbon, climate-resilient economy. grow their businesses. We want to promote dialogue and innovation.
Policymakers, corporates and financial increase access to financial services We connect the capital, expertise and
institutions must play a substantial and make them available at low cost. ideas needed to drive new standards
part in this to ensure that finance is an We strive to expand the reach and scale and create innovative solutions for
enabler of change. The need for a just of accessible banking and to connect sustainable growth. We work
transition that addresses environmental clients and our wider communities to across our markets to shape a new
challenges, while ensuring inclusive the skills and educational opportunities understanding of growth, one that
economic and social development in that promote and sustain access to is based on inclusivity, sustainability
the footprint markets where we operate, finance and economic opportunity. and our ambition to support people
is a priority for the Group. and communities for the long term.
26 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Strategic report Client segment reviews
We are also committed to promote sustainable finance in
our markets and channeling capital to where the impact will
Corporate,
be greatest. We are delivering on our ambition to support
sustainable economic growth, increasing support and funding
Commercial and for financial offerings that have a positive impact on our
communities and environment.
Institutional Banking Strategic priorities
• Deliver sustainable growth for clients by leveraging our network
to facilitate trade, capital and investment flows across our
footprint markets
KPIs
• Generate high-quality returns by improving funding quality and
Profit before taxation income mix, growing capital-lite income and driving balance sheet
velocity while maintaining disciplined risk management
$5,436 m $5,747 m • Be a digital-first and data-driven bank, that delivers enhanced
client experiences
42% 49% • Accelerate our sustainable finance offering to our clients through
underlying basis reported basis product innovation and enabling transition to a low-carbon future
Progress
Return on tangible equity (RoTE)
• Our underlying income performance is driven by our diversified
19.5 20.6 product suite and expanded client solutions supported by the
% % higher interest rate environment. Our cross-border income currently
contributes to 61 per cent of total CCIB income with growth across
610bps 700bps strategic corridors
underlying basis reported basis
• Robust balance sheet quality with investment-grade net exposures
representing 66 per cent of total corporate net exposures (2022:
Risk-weighted assets (RWA)
70 per cent) and high-quality operating account balances broadly
stable at 65 per cent of Transaction Banking and Securities Services
$142bn customer balances (2022: 67 per cent)
$1.6bn
• We defended against liabilities attrition through active pricing
management
Income Return on risk-weighted assets (Income RoRWA)
• Our client migration to the Straight to Bank NextGen platform
2023 7.8 % is successfully completed. We achieved digital adoption of
65.7 per cent (2022: 61.5 per cent) across Cash, Trade and FX,
2022 6.2 % by driving client awareness and adoption programs. Client
experience remains at the centre of our digital transformation,
2021 4.7 % with our Net Promoter Score at 78.6 per cent (2022: 68.4 per cent)
• We are ~70% of the way towards delivering our $1 billion income
Aim: Achieve RoRWA of 6.5% by 2024. from sustainable finance franchise by 2025, and have mobilised
Analysis: CCIB income RoRWA improved to 7.8% in 2023, up 160bps $87 billion in sustainable financing against our $300 billion
YoY and in line with our 2024 target, driven by higher income and commitment by 2030
disciplined risk management.
Performance highlights
Contribution of Financial Institutions segment • Underlying profit before tax of $5,436 million up 42 per cent at
to total income constant currency (“ccy”), primarily driven by higher income
and lower credit impairment charges, partially offset by
2023 49 % higher expenses
• Underlying operating income of $11,218 million up 20 per cent at ccy
2022 47 % primarily due to strong performance in Cash Management from
pricing discipline in a rising interest rate environment. Financial
2021 44 % Markets was down 2 per cent at ccy, mainly from lower revenue
in FX and Commodities on the back of lower market volatility,
Aim: Drive growth in high-returning Financial Institutions segment.
subdued primary issuances and non-repeat of the gains on
Analysis: Share of Financial Institutions income improved to 49 per cent
mark-to-market liabilities in 2022. Excluding the latter, Financial
in 2023 as we applied continued focus to this segment to drive income
and returns. Markets was up 3 per cent
• Underlying operating expenses were up by 10 per cent at ccy
largely due to inflationary pressure, targeted investments and
Segment overview strategic hires to support business growth
• Risk-weighted assets were down by $1.6 billion since 31 December
Corporate, Commercial and Institutional Banking supports
2022, mainly as a result of optimisation initiatives partly offset
local and large corporations, governments, banks and
by business growth. We achieved $10.3 billion optimisation in
investors with their transaction banking, financial markets risk-weighted assets in 2023 ($24.2 billion since January 2022)
and borrowing needs. We provide solutions to nearly 20,000
• Underlying RoTE increased from 13.4 per cent to 19.5 per cent
clients in some of the world’s fastest-growing economies
and most active trade corridors. Our clients operate or invest
across 45 markets across the globe.
Our strong and deep local presence enables us to help
co-create bespoke financing solutions and connect our
clients multilaterally to investors, suppliers, buyers and sellers.
Our products and services enable our clients to move capital,
manage risk and invest to create wealth. Our clients represent
a large and important part of the economies we serve.
Corporate, Commercial and Institutional Banking is at the
heart of the Group’s shared Purpose to drive commerce and
prosperity through our unique diversity.
28 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Strategic report Client segment reviews
Strategic priorities
Ventures • SC Ventures’ focus is on building and scaling new business models
– across the four themes of Online Economy & Lifestyle, SMEs &
World Trade, Digital Assets and Sustainability & Inclusion. We do
this by connecting ecosystems, partners and clients to create value
and new sources of revenue, providing optionality for the Bank.
Through its fund SC Ventures advances the Fintech agenda by
identifying, partnering, and taking minority interests in companies,
which can be integrated into the Bank and Ventures. Focus is on
innovative, fast-growing, technology-focused companies which
accelerate transformation in the financial industry.
KPIs • Mox continues to grow the customer base and drive main bank
relationships across mass and mass affluent segments in Hong
Loss before taxation External Funds Raised Kong. Mox’s vision is to set the global benchmark for digital
banking from Hong Kong. It aims to be the leading Hong Kong
$408 m $64 m virtual bank for Cards, Digital Lending and continues to further
expand services, including the recent launch of Digital Wealth
Management services.
12% underlying basis 41%
• Trust Bank aims to become the fourth largest retail bank in
Singapore by the end of 2024. To achieve this, it will scale through
Risk-weighted assets (RWA) New Ventures launched
its partner ecosystem and deepen its customer relationships with
the mass and mass affluent customer segments.
$1.9 5
bn
Progress
• Business performance in 2023 saw continued positive momentum
$0.6bn 2
for SC Ventures – five ventures were launched, funds were raised
amidst a challenging environment, geographical reach was
Gross Transaction Value Customers expanded, and the business exited two investments successfully.
As a result, the SC Ventures customer base grew by 25 per cent to
$18 2 reach 587,000 with Gross Transactional Value (GTV) growing by
bn m
15 per cent to $18 bn. One significant milestone for SC Ventures in
2023 was the establishment of a partnership with SBI Holdings
$2bn setting up a $100m digital asset joint venture in the UAE, a region
fast becoming a hub for fintechs in the digital asset space.
SC Ventures, through a number of innovative fintech ventures
Gross Transaction Value
(such as Shoal, Tawi and myZoi), continues to drive sustainability,
2023 $ 18 bn financial inclusion and financial literacy for the underbanked.
• In 2023, Mox had a strong focus on expanding its card and digital
2022 $ 16 bn lending services and recorded a strong performance and an
engaged customer base. Mox has more than 523,000 customers,
2021 $ 10 bn up 1.2 times YoY, with customers holding an average of 3.1x
products. It delivered close to three times YOY growth in revenue
with both deposits and lending expanding over 30 per cent YOY
basis. Mox reached 36 per cent (ranked #1) and 30 per cent of
Customers (ranked #2) market share in lending and deposits respectively
among all Hong Kong virtual banks in H1. The bank was recognised
2023 1.8 m in Forbes’ World’s Best Banks 2023, and The Asian Banker Hong
Kong Awards 2023 as the Best Digital-only Bank in Hong Kong,
2022 1.3 m and was ranked fifth in the World’s Top 50 Digital Banks 2023 by
The Digital Banker. The Mox app is the top-rated Hong Kong virtual
2021 0.5 m banking app in Apple App Store. Mox consistently has the best
Net Promoter Score (NPS) among all Hong Kong virtual banks.
Customer numbers for 2021 and 2022 normalised for the exit of Cardspal • Trust Bank continued to scale and, by reaching 12 per cent market
in 2023 share a year after launch, became one of the world’s fastest
growing digital banks. Product development remained on track,
with the launch of unsecured loans, supplementary credit cards,
and broadening of the general insurance offering. By the end of
Segment overview
2023, its customer base had grown 1.7 times YoY to 700,000
Formed in 2022 the Ventures client segment is a consolidation customers and deposit balances had grown 3.0 times YoY to $1.4bn.
of SC Ventures and its related entities as well as the Group’s Customer engagement remained strong with card activation
of 85 per cent and more than 2m digital coupons redeemed by
two majority-owned digital banks Mox in Hong Kong and
customers in the Trust ecosystem. In its first year of operation,
Trust in Singapore.
Trust was recognised as the best digital retail bank in Singapore
and Southeast Asia by The Digital Banker and was the number
• SC Ventures is the platform and catalyst for the Group to
one rated banking app in the Singapore Apple App Store.
promote innovation, invest in disruptive financial technology
and explore alternative business models. It represents a Performance highlights
diverse portfolio of over 30 ventures and more than • Underlying loss before tax of $408 million was up $45 million,
20 investments. driven mainly by higher expenses as we continue to invest in new
and existing ventures.
• Mox, a cloud-native, mobile only digital bank, was launched • Risk-weighted assets of $1.9 billion have increased $0.6 billion
in Hong Kong as a joint venture with HKT, PCCW and Trip. mainly due to continued investment in new and existing ventures
com in September 2020. and minority interests.
• Trust Bank is Singapore’s first cloud-native bank and
was launched in a partnership with FairPrice Group in
September 2022.
30 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Strategic report Regional reviews
Africa and the Loans and advances
to customers (% of group)
Middle East
7
%
Profit before taxation Risk-weighted assets (RWA)
$1,311 $38.4 Income split by key markets
m bn
UAE 28 %
90% $2.3bn
underlying basis
Pakistan 13 %
$1,317
m
Kenya 9 %
87% Others 50 %
reported basis
Region overview • Further embedded our International Banking proposition,
activating our diverse footprint across Africa and the Middle East.
We have a rich heritage in Africa and the Middle East (AME)
This has resulted in more than 150 per cent growth in Priority
with deep client relationships and historical contributions
Banking client base across our International Banking corridors
to the economy and the communities. Our unique footprint for the region
in the region, as well as across centres in Asia, Europe and
• Enhanced our digital offering in Africa by becoming the first
the Americas, enable us to seamlessly support our clients.
international bank with digital fixed income solutions in Kenya,
AME is becoming increasingly important for global trade Nigeria and Ghana, extending our micro-investment solution (SC
and investment corridors, and we are well placed to facilitate Shillingi) to Uganda, and launching digital personal loans in Kenya
these flows.
• Our Saudi franchise saw strong growth following the branch set-up
Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) markets are expected to in 2021 while a new branch launched recently in Egypt provides
additional growth opportunities in the region
outpace global growth on the back of macro-economic
tailwinds, higher government spend in diversified areas, • The sale of the Jordan business has been completed and buyers
bilateral trade negotiations and evolving economic have been announced for select sub-Saharan African businesses
that were identified for exit as part of our strategic announcement
partnerships. The macro-economic risk remains elevated in
in 2022
some markets in the region due to a high level of sovereign
debt and FX liquidity challenges, but they remain integral to • Sustained productivity actions have resulted in an improved Cost
to Income Ratio at 56 per cent (vs. 63 per cent in FY‘22) and
the economic corridors for our global clients. Overall, AME’s
an improvement in productivity with income per headcount
medium and long-term attractiveness remains compelling
(up 18 per cent year-on-year)
and intact, and it is an important part of our global network
proposition for our clients. Performance highlights
• Underlying profit before tax of $1,311 million, the highest annual
Strategic priorities profit since 2015, was up 66 per cent (up 90 per cent at ccy), driven
• Provide best-in-class structuring and financing solutions and drive by higher income and a net release in credit provisions partially
creation through client initiatives offset by an increase in expenses
• Accelerate growth in differentiated international network and • Underlying operating income of $2,806 million was up 14 per cent
Affluent client businesses (up 26 per cent at ccy) with strong growth in Cash Management,
Retail Deposits and Financial Markets. Income was up 29 per cent
• Invest in market-leading digitisation initiatives in CPBB to protect
(up 38 per cent at ccy) in Middle East, North Africa, Pakistan, up
and grow market share in core markets, continue with our
1 per cent (up 14 per cent at ccy) in Africa
transformation agenda to recalibrate our network and streamline
structures • Credit Impairment net release of $91 million in FY23 compared to
$119 million charge in FY22 reflecting a non-repeat of the prior year’s
• Be an industry leader in the transition to net zero across the region
sovereign related impairments and releases relating to historic
• Simplify footprint and refocus on strategic growth areas CCIB provisions
Progress • Loans and advances to customers were up 8 per cent YoY
• Topped the regional DCM league tables for the tenth consecutive (up 15 per cent at ccy) and customer accounts were up 4 per cent
year and secured the first rank in GCC G3 Bond and Sukuk issuance (up 9 percent at ccy) since 31 December 2022
• Supported Sustainable Finance across our footprint through our • Risk-weighted assets were 6 per cent lower than 31 December 2022,
comprehensive product offering. ESG DCM volumes across the despite the impact of sovereign downgrades, due to continuing
Middle East grew by over 160 per cent year on year, on the back of RWA optimisation activities, de-risking in markets with elevated
some of the largest and most innovative ESG deals in the region macro-economic risk and currency devaluation
• Strong cross-border income growth of 39 per cent with broad- • RoTE increased to 16.6 per cent from 9.3 per cent in FY22
based growth across all our key corridors
32 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 33
Strategic
report
Europe and Loans and advances
to customers (% of group)
the Americas
18
%
Loss before taxation Risk-weighted assets (RWA)
$330 $46.1 Income split by key markets
m bn
US 62 %
139% $4bn
underlying basis
UK 7 %
$28
m
Others 31 %
103%
reported basis
Region overview Progress
The Group supports clients in Europe and the Americas • Strong growth of 33 per cent in global cross-border network
business with Europe and the Americas CCIB clients across key
through hubs in London, Frankfurt and New York as well
footprint markets
as a presence in several other markets in Europe and Latin
America. Our expertise in Asia, Africa and the Middle East • Financial Institutions segment growth of 32 per cent, now
accounting for 60 per cent of the CCIB business for European
allows us to offer our clients in the region unique network
and Americas clients.
and product capabilities.
• Material growth in income from sustainable finance products
The region generates significant income for the Group’s and expansion of our sustainable product offering
Corporate, Commercial and Institutional Banking business.
• In CPBB we see positive momentum on Net New Money in 2023
Clients based in Europe and the Americas contribute over coupled with strong growth in mortgage balances for our high
one-third of the Group’s CCIB client income. Over three- net worth clients
quarters of client income is booked in the network, generating
Performance highlights
above-average returns.
• Underlying loss before tax of $330 million driven by lower income
In addition to being a key origination centre for CCIB, the and increased expenses
region offers local, on-the-ground expertise and solutions to • Underlying operating income of $1,397 million was down 40 per
help internationally minded clients grow across Europe and cent reflecting the increased cost of hedges within Treasury whilst
the Americas. The region is home to the Group’s two biggest strong growth in Transaction Banking income was partly offset by
lower Financial Markets income
payment clearing centres and the largest trading floor.
• Expenses increased by 12 per cent at ccy largely due to increased
Our European CPBB business focuses on serving clients with investment spend and the impact of inflation
links to our footprint markets.
• Credit impairments for the region remain well controlled
Strategic priorities
• FY23 RoTE negative 3.6 per cent down from 8.6% per cent in FY22
• Leverage our network capabilities to connect new and existing
Corporate and Financial Institutions clients in the West to the
fastest-growing and highest-potential economies across
our footprint
• Supercharge our FI Franchise
• Grow the business we capture from inbound trade flows from our
East to West Corridors
• Further develop our Sustainable Finance product offering and risk
management capabilities
• Enhance capital efficiency, maintain strong risk oversight and
further improve the quality of our funding base
• Expand assets under management in CPBB and continue to
strengthen the franchise
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 47
Strategic
report
An update on our risk management approach
Our Enterprise Risk Management Framework (ERMF) outlines how we manage risk across the Group, as well as at branch
and subsidiary level1. It gives us the structure to manage existing risks effectively in line with our Group Risk Appetite, as well
as allowing for holistic risk identification. The ERMF also sets out the roles and responsibilities and the minimum governance
requirements for the management of Principal Risks.
In revisions made in the ERMF in 2023, effective 1 January 2024, the concepts of Integrated Risk Types (IRTs) and IRT Owner
roles were discontinued. Oversight on existing IRTs, i.e. Climate Risk, Digital Asset and Third Party Risk, is achieved through the
Risk Type Frameworks (RTFs) and dedicated policies. The subject matter experts, as the policy owners for these risks, provide
overall governance and ensure a holistic view of how risks are monitored and managed across the Principal Risk Types (PRTs).
Principal Risk Types
PRTs are risks inherent in our strategy and business model. These are formally defined in our ERMF, which provides a structure
for monitoring and controlling these risks through the Risk Appetite Statement. We will not compromise compliance with our
Risk Appetite in order to pursue revenue growth or higher returns.
The table below provides an overview of the Group’s PRTs and their corresponding risk appetite statements.
Risk Types Risk Appetite Statement
Credit Risk The Group manages its credit exposures following the principle of diversification across
products, geographies, client segments and industry sectors.
Traded Risk The Group should control its financial markets and activities to ensure that market and
counterparty credit risk losses do not cause material damage to the Group’s franchise.
Treasury Risk The Group should maintain sufficient capital, liquidity and funding to support its operations,
and an interest rate profile ensuring that the reductions in earnings or value from movements
in interest rates impacting banking book items does not cause material damage to the Group’s
franchise. In addition, the Group should ensure its Pension plans are adequately funded.
Operational and Technology Risk The Group aims to control operational and technology risks to ensure that operational losses
(financial or reputational), including any related to conduct of business matters, do not cause
material damage to the Group’s franchise.
Financial Crime Risk The Group has no appetite for breaches in laws and regulations related to Financial Crime,
recognising that whilst incidents are unwanted, they cannot be entirely avoided.
Compliance Risk The Group has no appetite for breaches in laws and regulations related to regulatory non-
compliance; recognising that whilst incidents are unwanted, they cannot be entirely avoided.
Information and Cyber Security Risk The Group aims to mitigate and control ICS risks to ensure that incidents do not cause the Bank
material harm, business disruption, financial loss or reputational damage – recognising that
whilst incidents are unwanted, they cannot be entirely avoided.
Reputational and Sustainability Risk The Group aims to protect the franchise from material damage to its reputation by ensuring
that any business activity is satisfactorily assessed and managed with the appropriate level of
management and governance oversight. This includes a potential failure to uphold responsible
business conduct in striving to do no significant environmental and social harm.
Model Risk The Group has no appetite for material adverse implications arising from misuse of models
or errors in the development or implementation of models; whilst accepting some model
uncertainty.
In addition to the PRTs, the Group has defined the following Risk Appetite statement for Climate Risk: “The Group aims to
measure and manage financial and non-financial risks arising from climate change, and reduce emissions related to our own
activities and those related to the financing of clients in alignment with the Paris Agreement.”
1 The Group’s Enterprise Risk Management Framework and system of internal control applies only to wholly controlled subsidiaries of the Group, and not to
Associates, Joint Ventures or Structured Entities of the Group.
Further details on our Risk Management Approach can be found on page 314.
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 49
Strategic
report
Some sectors are particularly sensitive to high rates, notably The growing need for minerals and rare earth metals to power
commercial real estate, non-bank financial institutions (NBFI) green energy technologies could increase the geopolitical
and leveraged finance due to their reliance on the availability standing of the main refiners, such as China, Indonesia and
of cheap financing. Bank failures in Q1 2023 highlighted some African nations. However, there are also environmental
challenges in managing liquidity, credit, refinancing and and social costs to rapidly increasing extraction. A desire to
market risks. They also raised questions of competence and avoid dependence may slow down the move by some nations
confidence in the finance industry. towards the transition.
Economic slowdown in China How these risks are mitigated/next steps
Whilst China’s exit from COVID restrictions has had an overall • We remain vigilant in monitoring risk and assessing impacts
positive impact, it has failed to deliver a sustained boost to the from geopolitical and macroeconomic risks to portfolio
global economy as the country contends with strain in several concentrations.
sectors such as real estate. There has also been a change in
• We conduct thematic stress tests and portfolio reviews at
the corporate operating environment, with reduced clarity on
the Group, country, and business level, with regular reviews
the economic outlook.
on vulnerable sectors, and undertake any necessary
Given China’s importance to global trade a slowdown would mitigating actions.
have wider implications across the supply chain, especially for
• We maintain a diversified portfolio across products and
its trading partners, as well as to countries which rely on it for
geographies, with specific risk appetite metrics to monitor
investment, such as those in Africa. However, opportunities
concentrations.
arise from the diversification of intra-Asia trade and other
global trade routes, and growth acceleration in South Asia, • Increased scrutiny is applied when onboarding clients and
especially India. in ensuring compliance with sanctions.
• Collateral and credit insurance are used to manage
Sovereign risk
concentrations.
Credit fundamentals have been eroding across both
emerging and advanced economies due to persistently high • We track the participation of our footprint countries in the
interest rates, food and energy prices. Emerging markets will G20’s Common Framework Agreement and Debt Service
also be affected by weakness in local currencies versus the Suspension Initiative for Debt Treatments and the
US Dollar and the resultant cost of refinancing existing debt, associated exposure.
or availability of hard currency liquidity. Issues and challenges
• Our NBFI exposure is closely monitored in terms of both
have already been observed across several of the Group’s
limits, products and counterparties.
footprint markets, including the recent default of Ghana,
political instability in Pakistan, high inflation in Turkey,
Regulatory considerations
economic turmoil in Sri Lanka, and coups in Africa.
Changing regulatory environment
For some countries there is a heightened risk of failure to
manage social demands, which might culminate in increased Given notable bank failures in 2023 (and the response of
political vulnerability. Furthermore, food security exacerbated resolution authorities to those failures), the regulatory
by the influences of armed conflict and climate change, framework for banks remains subject to continued change
and energy security challenges have the potential to drive in addition to the implementation of Basel 3.1 in various
social unrest. jurisdictions. Additionally, the differing pace and scale of
regulatory adoption between jurisdictions, along with
Debt moratoria and refinancing initiatives are complicated increasing extraterritorial reach and prescriptiveness, can
by larger number of financiers, with much financing done make it challenging for multinational groups to manage
on a bilateral basis outside of the Paris Club. Whilst the their business. Implementation timelines are a focus.
Global Sovereign Debt Roundtable has made some
progress on coordinating approaches between the Paris The scale of upcoming regulatory change in 2024 and 2025
Club and other lenders their interests do not always match. is significant with major regime changes in capital and
This can lead to delays in negotiations on debt resolutions operational resilience due to take effect.
for developing nations.
How these risks are mitigated/next steps
Supply chain issues and material shortages • We actively monitor regulatory developments, including
Demand and supply imbalances in global supply chains those related to sustainable finance and ESG, and
are increasingly becoming structural in nature and affect a respond to consultations either bilaterally or through
wide range of commodities including food, energy, minerals well-established industry bodies.
and raw materials, plus targeted restrictions on certain
industry sectors.
There is growing political awareness around the need for key
component and resource security at national level. Countries
are enacting rules to “de-risk” by reducing reliance on rivals or
concentrated suppliers (for example semiconductors) and
look to either re-industrialise or make use of near-shoring and
friend-shoring production.
Strategic report Group Chief Risk Officer’s review
ESG considerations • Detailed portfolio reviews and stress tests are conducted
to test resilience to climate-related risks and enhance
ESG stakeholder expectations modelling capabilities to understand the financial risks
Organisations across the corporate and financial sectors are and opportunities from climate change.
setting ambitious sustainability goals and net zero targets
• Work is underway to embed Climate Risk considerations
with many embedding them in their business models. This has
across all relevant PRTs. This includes client-level Climate
prompted increased attention from various stakeholders in
Risk assessments, including setting adequate mitigants
ensuring that net zero targets are being met with credible
or controls as part of decision making and portfolio
action plans. Stakeholder scrutiny around greenwashing
management activities.
risk relating to ESG focused financial products, as well as
companies’ commitments, transpires in the various regulatory
Technological considerations
developments and early enforcement actions taken by several
key regulators.
Data and digital
Fragmentation in the pace and scale of adoption of ESG The Group’s digital footprint will expand as more services
regulations around the world remains, particularly around and products are digitised and made more accessible.
taxonomies and disclosure requirements, which may lead to Scale in operations and interactions with digital systems will
unintended consequences including misallocation of capital, further reduce the tolerance for errors and outages. The risk of
increased implementation costs and litigation risks. data breaches is amplified by highly organised actors, with
threats such as ‘Ransomware as a Service’ and affordable,
The Group’s net zero aspirations may be impacted by
sophisticated AI systems helping to facilitate attacks on
governments or corporates scaling back their sustainability
organisations and individuals.
targets, especially as economic conditions remain
challenging, and budgets are constrained. There have been Data regulation continues to be fluid and fragmented.
examples in developed nations, such as the UK revisiting its Geopolitical tensions have accelerated the implementation
electric vehicle transition timeline. A slower transition from key of data sovereignty laws, including data localisation
clients may also weigh reputational pressure on the Group’s requirements and cross-border access restrictions. These
roadmap. regulations often have an extraterritorial reach which could
increase operating costs significantly, and also impact
Higher frequencies of extreme weather-related events such
cross-border business models. Stakeholder expectations on
as wildfires, floods and famines may lead to physical climate
data management have also increased, particularly relating
risk and the cost of managing it becoming a heavier burden
to quality, integrity, record keeping, privacy, sovereignty, the
on global economies. This will be particularly impactful to
ethical use of data and application of AI.
developing markets. Alongside climate change, biodiversity
loss, pollution, and depletion of key resources, such as water, The sophistication and adoption of AI solutions are growing
pose incremental risks to food and health systems, energy exponentially and will increase exposure to existing risks such
security and contribute to the disruption of supply chains. as model, fraud, financial crime, compliance and Information
and Cyber Security (ICS) risks. In response, regulation is
Human rights concerns are increasingly in focus, with the
accelerating, particularly around the ethical application
scope expanding beyond direct abuses to cover other areas
of AI in decision-making, necessitating robust governance
such as technological advancement and supply chains.
measures. The Group needs to ensure that it develops
sufficient in-house subject matter expertise.
How these risks are mitigated/next steps
• We update our environmental and social standards for
New business structures, channels and competition
providing financial services to clients every two years,
Failure to harness new technologies and new business
with a new version scheduled for 2024.
models would place banks at a competitive disadvantage.
• We focus on embedding our values through our Position The continued exploration of partnerships, alliances, digital
Statements for sensitive sectors and a list of prohibited assets, generative AI and nascent technologies, such as
activities quantum computing, provides both opportunities and unique
challenges. This is increasingly important as digital assets
• We integrate the management of greenwashing risks
and distributed ledger technology become progressively
into our Reputational and Sustainability Risk Framework
prevalent and interconnected with the financial ecosystem.
and policies
Supply chains are becoming more complex, interconnected
• ‘Green’, ‘sustainable’ and ‘transition’ labels for products and digital. Highly extended enterprises expand opportunities
and transactions reflect the criteria set out in the Group’s available for malicious actors, with risk cascading further
Sustainable Finance frameworks, which are regularly down supply chains beyond just direct and third party risks.
reviewed. We obtain external verification on the Group’s
These innovations require specialist in-house expertise, new
Sustainable Finance asset pool.
operating models and adapting risk frameworks to perform
• We assess our clients and suppliers against various robust risk assessment and management of new threats.
international human rights principles, as well as through There is also growing regulatory attention in many of these
our social safeguards and supplier charter. areas. Balancing resilience and agility is essential given
the global nature of new technologies alongside the
Modern slavery statement:
https://www.sc.com/modernslavery maintenance of existing systems. It is imperative to establish
clear ownership, frameworks, and oversight of the use of
Human Rights Position Statement:
https://www.sc.com/humanrights emerging technologies.
50 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 51
Strategic
report
How these risks are mitigated/next steps Demographic trends
• We monitor emerging trends, opportunities and Divergent demographic trends across developed and
developments in technology as well as emerging business emerging markets create contrasting challenges. Developed
models that may have implications for the banking sector. markets’ state budgets could be strained by ageing and
shrinking populations, whilst political stances reduce the
• We invest in our capabilities, to better prepare and protect
ability to fill skills gaps through immigration. Conversely
ourselves against possible disruption and new risks.
emerging markets are experiencing fast-growing, younger
• We track the evolving regulatory landscape affecting key workforces. Whilst it is an opportunity to develop talent,
areas such as data management, digital assets and AI, population growth will put pressure on key resources such as
including country-specific requirements, and actively food, water, education and health, as well as government
collaborate with regulators to support important initiatives. budgets.
• We have established enhanced governance for novel areas Population displacement, whether as a result of climate
through the Digital Asset Risk Committee and Responsible events, lack of key resources, political issues or war, may
AI Council, which considers emerging regulatory guidance. increase the fragility of societal structures in vulnerable
centres. Large scale movement could cause social unrest,
• We manage data risks through our Compliance Risk Type
as well as propagate disease transmission and accelerate
Framework and information security risks through our ICS
the spread of future pandemics.
Risk Type Framework.
• We have developed a Group Data Strategy, to strengthen How these risks are mitigated/next steps
ownership of related data risks. • Our culture and EVP work aims to address the emerging
expectations of the diverse talent we seek. The Brand and
• We maintain a dedicated Data Compliance Policy with
Culture Dashboard monitors our diversity and inclusion,
globally applicable standards. These standards undergo
colleagues’ perceptions of our EVP, and whether we are
regular review to ensure alignment with evolving
living our Valued Behaviours. Management teams discuss
regulations and industry best practice.
many of these metrics (including employee survey
• We maintain programmes to enhance our data risk responses) to identify actions.
management capabilities and controls, including
• We are undertaking a multi-year journey of developing
compliance with BCBS239 requirements on effective risk
future-skills amongst our colleagues by focusing on
data aggregation, with progress tracked at executive level
continuous learning, to balance appropriately between
risk governance committees
‘building’ and ‘inducting’ skills into the Group.
• The Group has implemented a ‘defence-in-depth’ ICS
• Our internal Talent Marketplace provides colleagues with
control environment strategy to protect, detect and
opportunities to learn through experience by signing up
respond to known and emerging ICS threats.
for cross-functional (or even cross-geography) projects.
• New risks arising from partnerships, alliances, digital assets
• Employees in 44 markets are on agreed flexible working
and generative technologies are identified through the
arrangements. We continue to enhance support and
New Initiatives Risk Assessment and Third Party Risk
resources to People Leaders and colleagues to help balance
Management Policy and Standards.
productivity, collaboration and wellbeing.
Demographic considerations • Our Stands continue to be operationalised through our
strategy, and help address the talent pool’s increased
Talent pools of the future
expectations of us being purpose-led.
The expectations of the workforce, especially skilled workers,
continue to evolve. The COVID pandemic accelerated
changes on how people work, connect and collaborate,
with expectations on hybrid working now a given. The focus
is increasingly on ‘what’ work people do and ‘how’ they
get to deliver it, which are becoming differentiators in
the war for future talents. There is greater desire to seek
meaning and personal fulfilment at work that is aligned
Sadia Ricke
to individual purpose.
Group Chief Risk Officer
These trends are even more distinct among Millennials and
23 February 2024
Generation Z who make up an increasing proportion of
the global talent pool, and as digital natives possess the
attributes and skills we seek to pursue our strategy.
To sustainably attract, grow and retain talent, we must
continue to invest in and further strengthen our Employee
Value Proposition (EVP) and our brand promise, here for
good, through both firm-wide interventions as well as
targeted action.
SSttrraatteeggiicc rreeppoorrtt
Stakeholders and
Sustainability overview
54 Stakeholders
66 Our commitment to sustainability
68 Sustainability Aspirations
70 Sustainability Strategic Pillars
76 Managing Climate Risk
T[[ he Women’s
International
Network
continues
to grow]]
SC Women’s International Network
(SC WIN) went from strength to
strength in 2023, launching in
Malaysia in June, Kenya in July,
Singapore in September, and
Hong Kong in October.
SC WIN aims to provide female
entrepreneurs with tailored financial
solutions, business education and
opportunities to connect with like-
minded entrepreneurs so they can
successfully grow their businesses.
SC WIN launched in India in 2022
and is set to launch in further markets
in 2024.
Read more at sc.com/SCWin
52 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Strategic report Stakeholders
Stakeholders
This section forms our Section 172 disclosure,
As an international bank
describing how the directors considered the
operating in 52 markets, matters set out in section 172(1)(a) to (f) of the
Companies Act 2006. It also forms the directors’
stakeholder engagement
statement required under section 414CZA of
is crucial in ensuring we
the Act.
understand local, regional
See the following pages for:
and global perspectives
• How we engage stakeholders to understand their interests.
and trends which inform See pages 55 to 64
how we do business. • How we engage employees and respond to their interests.
See pages 60 to 64
• How we respond to stakeholder interests through
sustainable and responsible business. See pages 54 to 64
Our stakeholders Detailed information about how the Board engages directly
with stakeholders and shareholders can be found in the
Director’s report on pages 134 to 229.
Clients Examples of a selection of the Board’s principal decisions are
included throughout this section. This section also forms our
key non-financial disclosures in relation to sections 414CA
and 414CB of the Companies Act 2006. Our Non-financial
Regulators and governments
information statement can be found at the end of this section
on page 79.
Listening and responding to stakeholder priorities and
Investors
concerns is critical to achieving our Purpose and delivering
on our brand promise, here for good. We strive to maintain
open and constructive relationships with a wide range of
Suppliers stakeholders including regulators, lawmakers, clients,
investors, civil society, and community groups.
In 2023, we made improvements to some of our feedback
Society
processes, so relationship managers could address client
needs as they emerged. Our engagement took many forms,
including one-to-one sessions using online channels and calls,
Employees virtual roundtables, written responses, and targeted surveys.
These conversations, and the issues that underpin them, help
inform our business strategy and support us to operate as a
responsible and sustainable business.
Stakeholder feedback, where appropriate, is communicated
internally to senior management through the relevant forums
and governing committees such as the Sustainability Forum,
and to the Board’s Culture and Sustainability Committee
(CSC) which oversees the Group’s approach to its main
relationships with stakeholders.
We communicate progress regularly with external
stakeholders through channels such as sc.com, established
social media platforms and this report. More detailed
information on material sustainability topics can be found
in our Sustainability review on pages 90 to 133.
54 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Strategic
report
Clients
How we create value We also assess our product portfolio for new risks to ensure
We want to deliver easy, everyday banking solutions to our they remain appropriate for client needs and aligned to
clients in a simple and cost-effective way with a great emerging regulation. These quantitative and qualitative
customer experience. We enable individuals to grow and assessments, including Periodic Product Reviews, are intended
protect their wealth; we help businesses trade, transact, to provide a complete view of whether to continue, enhance,
invest and expand; and we help a variety of financial grow or retire products.
institutions, including banks, public sector and development Training is provided to frontline staff across our branches,
organisations, with their banking needs. contact centres and digital channels to identify and support
vulnerable clients, and we have also implemented an
How we serve and engage educational training programme for those clients who require
Our presence in high-growth markets – and ongoing roll out assistance in navigating online and mobile channels.
of digital platforms – helps connect our clients to the global
Throughout 2023, we maintained our sharp focus on
engines of trade and innovation. As part of our aim to reach
improving the client experience across the Bank. We
net zero carbon emissions by 2050, our transition finance
engaged with clients to show them the opportunities trade
team have been working closely with our clients in hard-to-
corridors could bring and how using our network could help
abate sectors on their own transitions. This is in addition to our
them flourish.
plan to mobilise $300 billion of Sustainable Finance between
2021 and 2030.
Consumer, Private & Business Banking
Across the bank, we have processes and controls to mitigate In Consumer, Private & Business Banking (CPBB), 2023 saw
greenwashing risks, and to support transparency we publish significant enhancements in digital wealth with the delivery of
the details of what constitutes our sustainable products and around 20 new capabilities across our markets. This includes
investments universe externally. client DIY Wealth Lending for Funds in Hong Kong and the
We work closely with third-party Environmental, Social and UAE and MyInsure in India where relationship managers can
Governance (ESG) data providers to support the development leverage a digital tool to perform comprehensive insurance
of product ideas, and due diligence is conducted by our needs analysis and portfolio reviews for clients.
in-house team on our high conviction suite of sustainable Our focus on partnerships continues to show results with
funds. the growth of our existing partnerships business in China,
Our push for a best-in-class client experience is underpinned Vietnam, Indonesia, and Singapore, and we have expanded
by innovative products and digital straight-through services. the partnership business to Malaysia. In 2023, the Bank
This includes building capability to protect our clients against launched partnerships with Ctrip in China, SeaMoney in
evolving risks in the ecosystem, like fraud and cyber security, Indonesia, and Atome in Singapore and Malaysia. These
and comes with education and increased client new and existing partnerships have incrementally added
communication. 2.6 million active clients, growth to 1.7 billion in balances, and
a total of 7.5 billion of new disbursements with impressive
To act in the best interests of our clients, we use our insights revenue growth in 2023.
gathered from our data alongside robust policies, procedures
and the Group’s risk appetite to design and offer products Additionally, we made significant progress in our advisory
and services that meet client needs, regulatory requirements business with the launch of SC Wealth Select in 14 markets.
and Group performance targets, while contributing to a SC Wealth Select aims to bring a portfolio approach to client
sustainable and resilient environment. conversations and is supported by our digital advisory tool
MyWealth Advisor. Across CPBB, 8,000 colleagues have
Fees and charges are disclosed to clients in line with completed the SC Wealth Select e-learning training and
regulatory requirements and industry best practice and, 930 frontline colleagues have completed or are undertaking
where available, benchmarked against competitors. For the Standard Chartered INSEAD Wealth Academy Advisory
Personal and Business Banking products, agreed interest programme.
rates, fees and other charges as billed to clients are monitored
and assessed locally, with global oversight. Importantly, we leverage our cross-border scale by using the
same technology and open architecture product platform in
Triggers for outlier fees and charges are defined and subject different markets to offer competitive products and solutions
to annual review. Complaints are reviewed on an ongoing globally. Examples of this include our series of Signature CIO
basis and are one of the factors that are taken into account Funds which is now available in 12 markets, with more to come
prior to amendments to annual interest, fees and charges. in 2024, and Wealth Saver, an innovative savings product, now
available in three markets.
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 55
Strategic report Stakeholders
Stakeholders
continued
Clients continued
Corporate, Commercial & Institutional Banking
Using artificial intelligence (AI) to serve
In 2023, Corporate, Commercial & Institutional Banking (CCIB)
CCIB clients
strengthened its annual feedback process by capturing how
clients feel about what we offer – including advice, customer
In 2023, we deployed artificial intelligence (AI) and other
service and digital channels. CCIB also focused on building
cutting-edge technology to improve how we serve our
a consistent digital experience and accelerated delivery
Corporate, Commercial and Institutional Banking clients.
through Cash, Trade, Financial Markets and Data Solutions.
This included:
Refining our processes through continuous improvement has
• client and frontline analytics that gave insights for
enabled us to achieve benefits in revenue and cost savings by
better working capital decisions, FX hedging, more
creating capacity and reducing client waiting times. We are
efficient liquidity deployment and cross-selling
transforming our bank-wide processes by taking a client-
recommendations
focused, data-driven digital bank approach that will enable
us to serve the needs of our clients better and faster, and • data science in the use of in-house proprietary
reduce the amount of friction and complexity in our network. ESG models
We have set in place processes and guidelines specific to our • the use of a cloud-based machine learning platform to
client businesses for us to better understand and promptly automate manual processes and improve efficiency.
address issues.
We continued our work with open banking APIs to
We implemented self-serve digital tools and capabilities support sector solutions for fintechs, shipping, retail,
such as chatbot, our mobile banking app, application insurance and healthcare.
programming interface (API) connectivity and data analytics.
These have reduced operational costs and enhanced the
overall client experience. Agile ways of working accelerated Their interests
our decision-making processes and change delivery to create • Differentiated product and service offering
great experiences and make it easier for our clients to bank
• Digitally enabled and positive experience
with us.
• Sustainable finance
We continue to engage in partnerships that help us offer
enhanced services to customers. Collaborations with Linklogis • Access to international markets.
and Taulia, which is part of SAP, aid clients with supply chain
financing through blockchain and dynamic discounting.
Our work with the Partior platform allows us to deliver the
speed, efficiency and visibility of domestic settlement systems
to cross-border payments and settlements networks to
absolve significant wholesale cross border payment frictions
and deliver instant, 24/7 settlement of digital assets on
the blockchain.
Our work with digital trade transaction portal Trade Track-It
integrates DHL’s tracking system and Lloyd’s List Intelligence
vessel tracking system through API, to offer clients end-to-end
visibility of their trade transaction status globally.
Across both CCIB and CPBB, throughout 2024, we will continue
to listen and respond to stakeholder priorities and concerns,
addressing feedback as it emerges, strengthen our digital
transformation and innovation capabilities, and support our
clients as they transition to net zero.
56 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Strategic
report
Regulators and governments Investors
How we create value How we create value
We engage with public authorities to play our part in We aim to deliver robust returns and long-term sustainable
supporting the effective functioning of the financial system value for our investors.
and the broader economy.
How we serve and engage
How we serve and engage
We rely on capital from debt and equity investors to
We actively engage with governments, regulators and execute our business model. Whether they have short- or
policymakers at a global, regional and national level to share long-term investment horizons, we provide our investors
insights and support the development of best practice, and with information about progress against our strategic and
adoption of consistent approaches, across our markets. financial frameworks.
In 2023, we engaged with regulators, government officials and Through our footprint and the execution of our sustainability
trade associations on a broad range of topics that included agenda, we provide our investors with exposure to
international trade, sustainability, data, cyber security, digital opportunities in emerging markets. We believe that our
adoption, and innovation. We also engaged with officials on integrated approach to ESG issues, as well as a strong risk
the financial services regulatory environment, in particular and compliance culture, are key differentiators.
on prudential, financial markets, conduct and financial
The Group delivered a strong set of results in 2023 and
crime frameworks.
achieved its financial objective of a double-digit return on
Our Group Public and Regulatory Affairs team supports most tangible equity (RoTE) for the year. We set out five actions
engagements while Conduct, Financial Crime & Compliance, in 2022 designed to accelerate delivery of this RoTE target.
Risk, Legal and Finance identify and analyse relevant policies, The strong execution of these actions over the last two years,
legislation and regulation. where we either achieved our targets ahead of plan or they
are well on-track, supported us to reach that milestone in
This work is overseen by various governance forums within
2023. We will now build on this success, taking action to deliver
the Bank, which comprise senior executives representing
sustainably higher returns with a focus on driving income
business and control functions to support alignment between
growth and improving operational leverage, to deliver a RoTE
advocacy and business strategies.
of 12 per cent in 2026
For more details on our engagement with regulators and
governments, as well as our industry and membership Regular and transparent engagement with our investors,
associations please see sc.com/politicalengagement and the wider market, helps us understand investors’ needs
and tailor our public information accordingly. In addition to
Their interests direct engagement from our Investor Relations team, we
• Strong capital base and liquidity position appropriate to communicate through quarterly, half-year and full-year
a global systemically important bank (G-SIB) results, conferences, roadshows, investor days and
media releases.
• Robust standards for conduct and financial crime
We continued to expand our use of virtual meetings during
• Healthy economies, trade flows and competitive markets
the year 2023, coupled with a growing number of face-to-face
• Sustainable Finance and net zero transition interactions. We hosted two capital market days, focusing on
our Asia region and the Sustainability opportunity in May and
• Digital innovation in financial services
November respectively.
• Operational resilience
Key investor feedback, recommendations and requests are
• Customer protection considered by the Board, whose members keep abreast of
current topics of interest. Standard Chartered PLC’s Annual
• Financial stability
General Meeting (AGM) in May was open to shareholders
to attend either in person or electronically where they were
provided a platform to view a live video feed of the meeting.
All participants were provided with the opportunity to submit
their votes and ask the Board questions.
Similarly, the Group Chairman, alongside some members of
the Board, hosted a hybrid stewardship event for institutional
investors in November which provided a platform for
shareholders to receive an update on a number of topics,
including sustainability, net zero and governance matters.
The event included an open question-and-answer session
across a range of key issues.
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 57
Strategic report Stakeholders
Stakeholders
continued
Investors continued Suppliers
We continue to respond to growing interest from a wide How we create value
range of stakeholders on ESG matters, including investors. We are dedicated to engaging with suppliers who offer
We sought shareholder endorsement for our net zero value-adding goods and services across our network, and
pathway at the 2022 AGM, intended as a means by which we work closely with them to support global environmental
we will measure progress, engage and gather views. We and social standards. Our suppliers are expected to be
also work with sustainability analysts and participate in ethical, respect human rights, diversity and inclusion,
sustainability indices that benchmark our performance, and the environment to support our colleagues, clients,
including the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Climate and communities.
Change survey and Workforce Disclosure Initiative.
How we serve and engage
Regular engagement with different shareholder groups
ensures that we act fairly between them. Our principal We must effectively manage, monitor, and mitigate risks in
engagement event with our retail shareholders is our AGM our supply chain. We do this through our Third-Party Risk
and in order to hear from as wide a group as possible we Management Policy. This, in conjunction with the Principal Risk
encourage maximum participation by way of attendance Type Policies and Standards, set out the Group’s minimum
in person and via a live web portal. Further details of our control requirements for the identification, mitigation and
2023 AGM are on page 159. management of risks arising from the use of suppliers.
In 2024, we will continue to engage with investors on progress Our Supplier Charter sets out our principles in relation
against our strategic priorities and actions, as well as our to ethics, human rights, diversity and inclusion, and
financial framework as we progress towards delivering environmental performance. All newly onboarded suppliers
sustainably higher returns. are expected to agree with these principles. We seek to
reinforce this through the terms of our standard contract
Their interests templates, where possible, and we further encourage
alignment by sending an annual letter to all active suppliers.
• Safe, strong and sustainable financial performance
This includes guidance regarding our stance on ethics and
• Facilitation of sustainable finance to meet the United conduct, sustainability aspirations, payment processes and
Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Goals other relevant principles such as Anti-Bribery and Corruption.
Our Charter covers all geographies and categories of
• Progress on ESG matters, including advancing our
suppliers, and we plan to refresh the Charter in 2024.
net zero agenda
Supporting our suppliers to achieve net zero
Our supply chain is critical to achieving the Group’s
sustainability aspirations, and we continue to make good
progress. We encourage our suppliers to set science-based
emissions reduction targets and by 2028 we plan to direct
70 per cent of our total expenditure to suppliers who have set
or committed to setting science-based emission reduction
targets. In 2023, we held group sessions with our suppliers to
support them reduce their emissions, discuss progress and
next steps.
Supporting a diverse and inclusive supply chain
We recognise the value of supply chain diversity to our
business and society. In 2023, we continued to integrate
supplier diversity into our business strategy and make efforts
to include diverse suppliers in sourcing activities and improve
spending levels with diverse suppliers as appropriate. To do
this we have continued to collaborate with non-governmental
organisations (NGOs), business incubators and others to help
build and develop our diverse and talented supplier pool.
In 2023, this included joining member-buyer events, local
procurement networking activities and best practice sharing
events with partners like WEConnect International – a global
network supporting women-owned businesses to connect
with larger companies.
58 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Strategic
report
Society
We have continued to build capacity with our own colleagues How we create value
through online training on supplier diversity and inclusion. We strive to operate as a sustainable and responsible
Highlighting our commitment, we have been awarded company, working with local partners to promote social and
the Chartered Institute of Procurement and Supply Asia economic development.
Excellence in Procurement Award for outstanding Diversity
and Inclusion practices in procurement teams and Best
How we serve and engage
Initiative to Build a Diverse Supplier Base. In 2023,
We engage with a wide range of civil society, international
approximately 40 per cent of our newly onboarded suppliers
and local NGOs, from those focused on environmental and
were diverse* including, for example, KASHow. KASHow is a
public policy issues to partners delivering our community
micro-owned and predominately women-led business, which
programmes. To shape our strategy, we aim for constructive
managed the logistics and planning of Standard Chartered
dialogue that helps us to understand alternative perspectives
Hong Kong’s 25th marathon in 2023. In addition, KASHow was
and ensure that our approach to doing business is
supportive of our sustainability objectives by using recycled
understood. This includes working with NGOs that
materials for the marathon event logistics and the building of
approach us about a specific client, transaction or policy.
the carnival event booth.
In 2023, climate change, our net zero pathway, human rights
*For Standard Chartered, diverse suppliers are defined as:
and nature continued to underpin many of our conversations.
• Small enterprise (10–49 employees + turnover We primarily received NGO feedback via our public inbox
<USD10 million) and responded to queries in line with our standards. For
complex issues such as climate change, we held bilateral
• Micro enterprise (<10 employees + turnover <USD2 million)
virtual meetings with NGOs to exchange perspectives in
• Medium enterprise (50–249 employees + turnover greater depth.
<USD50 million)
In 2023, together with the Standard Chartered Foundation,
• Women owned (51 per cent or more owned by Women we continued to engage with NGOs, charities and other
(South Africa 30 per cent owned by women as per local organisations to empower the next generation to learn, earn
government regulations)) and grow through Futuremakers by Standard Chartered,
our global community initiative to tackle inequality by
• Ethnic minority owned (51 per cent owned by ethnic
promoting greater economic inclusion. We provided
minorities)
education, employability and entrepreneurship support to
• Veteran Owned (51 per cent or more owned by veterans) more than one million young people, with 62 per cent of those
engaged being women.
• Disabled owned (51 per cent or more owned by differently
abled people) To close the gender gap and promote access to finance,
we piloted financing facilities to support women-led
• LGBT+ owned (51 per cent owned by LGBT+ (not possible
microbusinesses with green and social ambitions. At the UN
in some countries due to local legal regulations))
Climate Change Conference, COP 28, we held a Futuremakers
• Social enterprises (NGOs and charities) Youth Panel in Dubai, and online in Nairobi to generate
insights on scaling tech solutions for a green and inclusive
Their interests: economy. In 2024, we will conduct a study on our social return
• Open, transparent and consistent tendering process on investment to assess the impact of Futuremakers.
• Accurate and on-time payments By offering three days paid volunteering leave, we instilled
a strong culture of volunteering where 61 per cent of our
• Willingness to adopt supplier-driven innovations colleagues contributed over 76,000 days giving back to the
• Obtain guidance on implementation of Sustainability community. In 2024, we will increase our skills-based activities
matters leveraging our colleagues’ skills to deepen our impact, with a
target of 75,000 skills-based hours across our footprint.
Their interests
• Climate change and decarbonisation
• Nature
• Human rights
• Financial inclusion
• Economic empowerment
• Gender equity
• Community impact.
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 59
Strategic report Stakeholders
Stakeholders
continued
Employees
How we create value In 2023, our annual My Voice survey was conducted in May
We recognise that our workforce is key to driving our and June: 87 per cent of our employees (69,935) and 58 per
performance and productivity and that the diversity of our cent of eligible agency workers (2,203) participated in the
people, cultures and network sets us apart. To lead the way survey. Key measures of employee satisfaction have continued
in addressing the evolving needs of our clients and advances to improve year-on-year, with an 8.3 point increase in our
in technology, we are developing a workforce that is future- employee Net Promoter Score (NPS) (which measures
ready, and are co-creating with our employees to build an whether employees would recommend working for us) as
inclusive, innovative and client-centric culture that drives well as a 3 percentage point increase in our employee
ambition, action and accountability. engagement index. Over 87 per cent say that the Group
meets or exceeds their expectations. More colleagues are
saying that we are simplifying the client experience, that
How we serve and engage
we are collaborating better to deliver results, that decision-
By engaging employees and fostering a positive experience
making is becoming easier and our processes are becoming
for them, we can better serve our clients and deliver on our
more efficient. It is also encouraging to see that 97 per cent of
Purpose. A culture of inclusion and ambition enables us to
employees feel committed to doing what is required to help
unlock innovation, make better decisions, deliver our business
the Group succeed, and 90 per cent feel proud about working
strategy, live our valued behaviours and embody our brand
for the Group. The consistent increase in scores indicates that
promise. We proactively assess and manage people-related
we are continuing to improve as a place to work.
risks, such as, capacity, capability and culture, as part of our
Group Risk Management Framework. This is also underscored by the ‘Great Place to Work’
certifications that we have received across multiple markets,
Our People Strategy, which was approved by the Board, stays
including in India, Vietnam, Bahrain, Poland, the UK and the
relevant and future-focused, with external events having
US. Our Glassdoor rating (out of five) has increased from 3.7 in
accelerated many of the future of work trends which continue
2019 to 3.9 in 2023, and 77 per cent would recommend working
to inform our approach.
with us to friends. We also continue to be recognised as an
employer of choice and details of our accolades can be found
Their interests
on page 522 of the Report and on sc.com/awards.
Translating our here for good brand promise and Purpose
All of this is indicative of our progress in further strengthening
of driving commerce and prosperity through our unique
our EVP to attract, retain and grow the skills and talent that
diversity into our colleagues’ day-to-day experience is critical
are critical to delivering our strategy and outcomes for clients.
to us remaining an employer of choice across our footprint.
The research we have on our Employee Value Proposition
Strengthening our culture of high performance
(EVP) tells us that our existing and potential employees want
to: have interesting and impactful jobs; innovate within a As the Group transforms to achieve our strategic ambitions,
diverse set of markets and for a spectrum of clients; cultivate a we continue to embed our refreshed approach to
brand that sustainably drives commerce and offers enriching managing, recognising and rewarding performance.
careers and development; and be supported by great We are strengthening a culture of ambition, action and
people leaders. They want these elements to be anchored accountability by increasing the frequency of performance
in competitive rewards and a positive work–life balance. and development conversations and emphasising the
The employment proposition is a key input to our People importance of two-way feedback. We are placing greater
Strategy which supports the delivery of our business strategy. focus on recognising outperformance that is driven by
collaboration and innovation, and are encouraging more
Listening to employees aspiration during goal-setting and flexibility in reward
decisions (supported by the removal of formulaic performance
Frequent feedback from employee surveys helps us identify
decisions starting 2022).
and close gaps between colleagues’ expectations and their
experience. In addition to our annual survey, colleague Behavioural changes are visible. Colleagues are telling us that
sentiment is captured more frequently, through a rolling they are having more regular performance check-ins with their
culture survey and through surveys at key moments for our leaders – with over two-thirds doing so at least every quarter.
employees, such as when they join us, when they leave, and In 2023, almost 250,000 pieces of feedback were exchanged
when they return to work after parental leave. In addition to among colleagues (which is close to 1.4 times the amount of
leveraging inputs from employee surveys, the Board and feedback exchanged in 2021, before our refreshed approach
Management Team also engage with and listen to the views was launched across the Group). We know that recognition is
of colleagues through interactive sessions. More information also an important enabler of high performance, and we have
on the Board’s engagement with the workforce can be found launched a digital platform in January 2024 to encourage
on page 161 in the Directors’ report. democratised, peer-to-peer recognition for all colleagues.
60 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Strategic
report
Employees continued
The wellbeing of our colleagues is critical to sustainable Building leadership capabilities
high-performance, and supporting their health, safety, and Exceptional performance needs exceptional leadership, and it
resilience continues to be a key priority. In 2023, levels of high is encouraging to see that manager NPS continues to increase
work-related stress felt by employees continued to drop. to 37.9 points in 2023 (up 4.8 points year-on-year). Engaging,
Employees felt more supported with their mental, physical, developing, and measuring our people leaders continues to
social and financial wellbeing needs, and their satisfaction be a critical enabler of our performance and culture. Our
with work–life balance continued to increase. Globally, Leadership Agreement sets out clear expectations from
colleagues are provided with access to wide-ranging support our leaders to Aspire, Inspire and Execute. It also forms the
and tools to manage their wellbeing, including several foundation of a modernised leadership development
progressive benefits, a mental health app, an employee curriculum through which one-third of our people leaders are
assistance programme, wellbeing toolkits, and a network of being covered each year to help them build new skills and
trained mental health first aiders. We continue to tackle the habits across different leadership stages – including skills on
drivers of work-related stress, which includes inserting coaching, performance management in business-specific
wellbeing skills-building into learning interventions. contexts, leading for transformation, and leading through
We have been embedding the flexible working model that we ambiguity. While more than 4,700 leaders learned through
initiated in 2021, combining flexibility in working patterns and face-to-face leadership programmes during the year,
locations, to enhance both the productivity and experience of leadership skill-building was also made accessible to
our workforce. Over 52,000 employees in 44 markets are now all colleagues to build the capability deeper into the
on agreed flexi-working arrangements, with the majority organisation. Almost 17,000 employees signed up to our
having signed up to work from the office for two to three days 60-day Leadership Health journey of regular micro-learning
a week. Our model consciously balances client needs and activities; over 26,000 accessed the monthly Leadership
business priorities with individual choice, allowing us to be Insights newsletter and over 8,500 tuned into leadership
inclusive of the diverse needs of our workforce. Colleagues sessions during our annual Global Learning Week.
continue to adopt ways of working that balance the benefits In 2023, 84 per cent of our people leaders received feedback
of remote working with face-to-face interactions. Toolkits through our ‘always on’ feedback tool available to all
and guidance are being provided to people leaders and colleagues, as well as through the structured 360-degree
individuals to help navigate flexible working. These include feedback tool that is available to mid-to-senior people
support on organising team and individual work to enhance leaders. Leaders are also provided a consolidated view
productivity and wellbeing; on leading in key moments such of the environment they are creating for their teams,
as onboarding new team members, returning from parental and feedback on their leadership skills, as part of their
leave and during performance conversations; and on Leadership Dashboard. The dashboard has been designed
strengthening connections in flexible work environments. to bring transparency to performance and development
We also continue to re-imagine our physical workspaces with conversations, and to highlight the value we place
the relevant infrastructure and technology to provide hubs on leadership.
for teamwork, collaboration and learning. As a result of these
ongoing interventions, employees who are working flexibly Read our Leadership Agreement at sc.com/leadershipagreement
express greater satisfaction with overall employee experience
and work–life balance in comparison to employees working
Developing skills of future strategic value and
fully remotely or fully in the office. Also, over 80 per cent of
enabling careers
colleagues expressed in the 2023 My Voice survey that flexible
To keep pace with technological innovation, evolving
working has had a positive impact on their ability to get work
customer expectations and the changing world of work,
done and to collaborate, as well as their sense of belonging
we are adopting a ‘skills-led’ approach – accelerating the
and social connection with others.
development of future skills among our workforce and
Read more about our approach to flexible working at
bringing in greater agility to how skills are deployed to areas
sc.com/flexibleworking
of opportunity across the Group. We are helping employees
build the skills needed for high performance today, to reskill
and upskill for tomorrow, and to be global citizens who
understand the changing nature of the world in which we
operate. This includes helping them strengthen a combination
of human and technical skills, as well as building a culture of
continuous learning that empowers them to grow and follow
their aspirations. Since 2020, the average hours invested
by employees in personal development has increased by
23.9 per cent to 26.8 hours in 2023.
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 61
Strategic report Stakeholders
Stakeholders
continued
Employees continued
Learning in classrooms is balanced with learning through our We are also further embedding a focus on skills across our
online learning platform diSCover, which is also accessible talent management processes. Our refreshed approach to
via a mobile app. Over 70,000 colleagues actively used the identifying the future potential of our workforce focuses
platform in 2023 and 30,000 colleagues have used one or on their ability against a range of skills, along with their
more of our Future Skills Academies which include the Data & aspiration to put these skills into action by taking on complex
Analytics, Digital, Cyber, Client Advisory, Sustainable Finance responsibilities (in turn moving away from the traditional
and Leadership Academies. Employees are also building and emphasis on past performance being a primary indicator
practicing new skills on the job by signing up for projects (often of future potential). Through this approach we are placing
cross-functional and cross-location) through our AI-enabled strong emphasis on learning agility to identify the talent that
internal Talent Marketplace platform. Since its launch in 2020, we want to accelerate as well as deploy in areas of highest
over 28,000 employees have registered on the platform, with impact for clients and the business.
over 2,000 of them being assigned to projects. Deploying their
skills at speed across our network has resulted in unlocking Creating an inclusive workplace
over $6.2 million in terms of productivity. By combining such We believe that inclusion is what enables our diverse talent to
project opportunities with purposeful internal talent moves, truly deliver impact and drive business success. Through our
we continue to enhance the career experience of colleagues. annual My Voice survey and supplemented by qualitative
The Marketplace also acts as a platform to connect feedback gathered, we aim to better understand the lived
employees to mentors across the Group. experiences of our colleagues, and then act to make targeted
The 2023 My Voice scores indicate that our efforts are in the and meaningful changes to further drive inclusion and
right direction, as employee satisfaction with development enhance their experience.
and growth opportunities increased compared to previous Our progress in this space is reflected in the 83.2 per cent
years, and highlight that this is an area we must continue to of employees who shared positive sentiments around our
focus on. culture of inclusion in the 2023 survey, consistent as last year.
We continue to expand targeted learning journeys to upskill This has been enabled by continued efforts towards
colleagues towards critical ‘future’ roles where our strategic increasing awareness around diversity and inclusion
workforce planning analysis has predicted an increasing principles, unconscious bias and micro-behaviours as well
need for talent, including universal banker, data translator, as by emphasising the importance of creating an inclusive
cloud security engineer, product owner/scrum master and environment – aspects that are covered in the ‘When we’re all
cyber security analyst roles. At the same time, we have included’ learning programme which has been completed
been strengthening and scaling the proposition to support by more than 34,000 colleagues by the end of 2023. Further,
colleagues in building systemic skills, in areas such as the ‘Respect at Work’ e-learning programme that helps
sustainability, innovation, data, digital and leadership, which understand what constitutes harassment, bullying,
an increasing population of the workforce is anticipated to discrimination and victimisation, is now mandatory for
need to keep pace with the changes happening in the sector. all employees.
We aim to further strengthen our inclusive culture, where
all our people feel that their identity is understood
and recognised for its uniqueness and anyone with the
capability to excel can do so. Employees are provided, where
legally permissible, with the ability to share their identity data
through our internal employee portal. We are focused on
Embedding a focus on skills across the initiatives that encourage and increase self-declaration
employee lifecycle (including socio-economic status in the UK), so that we can
further improve colleague experience by introducing policies
In our CCIB business, we have been embedding a focus and interventions that are representative of the needs of our
on skills across the employee lifecycle in the way we diverse workforce.
hire, identify, develop and deploy talent. We have
updated part of our skills library to develop 35 skills-based Our continued partnership with Purple Tuesday is one of
role profiles and job descriptions for the highest impact the many initiatives through which we are creating a work
roles that will help enhance our client proposition and environment where colleagues are encouraged to bring their
deliver on our business strategy. In 2024, we will further whole selves to work. The partnership is helping increase the
enable a democratised career and development visibility of role models and careers for those with disabilities
experience for colleagues in CCIB through our internal across more than 50 markets. It is also helping to drive an
Talent Marketplace, which will allow them to better ongoing conversation, to build awareness and break down
understand and develop the skills needed to excel in myths and stereotypes when engaging with clients and
their existing role as well as to grow and move to their colleagues with disabilities. The SC-Out Pride Leadership
aspired roles. It will also enable leaders and recruiters Summit this year saw Employee Resource Group leads, allies
to rapidly identify, access and deploy skills at scale in a and advocates come together from across 14 markets to
cost-efficient manner. define our approach for further building a respectful,
supportive, and safe work environment for our LGBT+
62 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Strategic
report
Employees continued
Female representation
Board Management Team and their direct reports
Female Female 2023 Female Female 2023
38 5 2022 36.1 48 2022
% %
Male Male
(2022: 43%) (2022: 32.8%)
8 85
Senior leadership All employees
(Managing directors and band 4)
Female Female 2023 Female Female 2023
32.5 1,474 2022 44.8 38,051 2022
% %
Male Male
(2022: 32.1%) (2022: 45.3%)
3,050 46,004
Undisclosed Undisclosed
17 952
colleagues. We also recognise six key dates1 across the year As we work towards achieving our 2025 UK and US ethnicity
and use these as focal points to facilitate open dialogue on senior leadership aspirations, we will also be updating these
inclusion internally and externally. Through these global targets to extend to 2027. At the same time, we are focused on
campaigns we engage and strengthen relationships with nurturing local talent in markets across Asia, Africa and the
clients and external stakeholders, collectively raising Middle East.
awareness, promoting best practices and committing to
Leadership commitment is core to our approach on D&I.
take practical steps to advance the overall Diversity and
Our Global D&I Council is chaired by our CEO, CCIB and
Inclusion (D&I) agenda in our communities.
Europe & Americas and comprises of enterprise-wide leaders
Our gender diversity continues to grow, with more women representing various business, functions and geographies
leaders moving up to senior roles. Women currently represent from across the Group. The Council is responsible for our
38 per cent of the Board, 14 of our CEOs are women, and overall D&I strategy, direction setting, and overseeing
representation of women in senior leadership roles increased the implementation of sustainable and measurable
to 32.5 per cent at the end of 2023. We are committed to improvements. In 2023, as a result of our listening exercises
continuous improvement in this area and aspire to have and data insights, we also established a Black and African
35 per cent representation of women at a senior level by 2025. Talent Steering Committee and Working Group, and
We remain focused on building a workforce that is truly appointed Group Management Team and Global D&I Council
representative of our client base and footprint. As of 2023, sponsors to advocate for leadership action in focus areas
31 per cent of our Board identifies as being from a minority identified, such as career progression and the international
ethnic background, above our aspiration of 30 per cent. mobility experience.
Further, 26.3 per cent of our Global Management Team
Read more about our approach towards strengthening diversity and
and their direct reports identify as Black, Asian or minority inclusion at sc.com/diversityfairpayreport
ethnic. In the UK, Black representation in senior leadership is
2.5 per cent and Black, Asian and minority ethnic in senior
leadership is 27.8 per cent. In the US, Black/African American
representation in senior leadership is 4 per cent and Hispanic/
Latinx in senior leadership is 10.1 per cent. We continue to
develop strategic partnerships and experiment with
programmes to widen our talent pools (such as the Spring
Insights Programme in 2023 that provided a multi-day
immersive experience to Black, African American, Hispanic
and Latinx students in New York and London to learn about
our CCIB business, and access internship opportunities).
1 International Day Against Homophobia, Transphobia and Biphobia, International Day of Persons with Disabilities, International Men’s Day, International
Women’s Day, and World Day for Cultural Diversity for Dialogue and Development, World Mental Health Day.
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 63
Strategic report Stakeholders
Stakeholders
continued
Employees continued
Compared with last year, our mean hourly and bonus pay
Enhancing experience and inclusion through gaps have decreased in most markets, particularly in the UK
progressive, purpose-led benefits and the US. While this shows continuous improvement since
our first disclosure, they remain at a level that signifies there
Taking an intersectional approach to diversity, inclusion are proportionally more male than female colleagues in senior
and wellbeing, we have continued to introduce roles and/or roles with higher market rates of pay.
progressive, purpose-led benefits. Going beyond our
minimum standard for maternity leave, all colleagues, To complement the legislative approach in the UK, we also
irrespective of gender, relationship status, or how a child calculate an adjusted pay gap, which compares women and
comes to permanently join their family, are now eligible men at the same hierarchy level and in the same business
for a minimum of 20 weeks of paid parental leave. We are area. Mirroring previous years, the narrow margins for the
also expanding medical benefits to make comprehensive adjusted pay gap analysis indicate that our female and male
coverage accessible for menopause-related treatments colleagues in the same business areas and at the same levels
to all colleagues and their partners, including access of seniority are paid similarly.
to specialised medical practitioners and prescription. In addition to the gender pay gap analysis, we are publishing
This is in addition to the existing support for managing our ethnicity pay disclosure for the UK and the US for the
menopause symptoms through flexible working options, second year, and this year we have expanded the disclosure
paid leave for treatment, workspace adjustments and to include hourly and bonus pay gaps for each ethnic group.
access to menopause counselling. We believe that such The results indicate that there are proportionally more
benefits continue to be critical levellers for gender White and fewer Black, and in the case of the US, also fewer
equality, encouraging women’s participation in the Hispanic, colleagues in senior roles and/or roles with higher
workforce and LGBT+ inclusion, aligning to our Lifting market rates of pay. While our adjusted ethnicity pay gaps
Participation Stand. indicate that colleagues with different ethnicity backgrounds
are paid similarly in the same business areas and at the
same levels of seniority, there is still more work to be done
Equal pay – gender and ethnicity pay gaps
to promote representation of different ethnic groups within
To better understand the strengths and gaps of the the organisation.
organisation and develop action plans to enable the potential
Equal pay is a key commitment in our Fair Pay Charter and we
of our truly diverse and inclusive workforce, we have been
carry out checks during hiring, promotion and year-end review
analysing and publishing our gender pay gap statistics for our
in all markets to challenge potential bias and ensure there is
five hub locations (UK, US, Hong Kong, Singapore, and UAE)
equal pay for equal work.
since 2017. The gender pay gap is calculated based on the
approach by the UK government and compares the average Read more about our gender and ethnicity pay gap analysis at sc.com/
diversityfairpayreport
pay of men and women without accounting for some of the
key factors which influence pay, including different roles, skills,
seniority and market pay rates.
2023 Gender pay gap UK Hong Kong Singapore UAE US
Mean hourly pay gap1 22% 21% 29% 30% 21%
Mean bonus pay gap2 44% 35% 40% 56% 36%
1 The hourly pay gap is calculated by taking the difference between the mean female and male hourly pay, expressed as a percentage of the male amount
2 The Bonus pay gap is calculated by taking the difference between the mean female and male bonus payments received in the 12 months prior to 5 April,
expressed as a percentage of the male amount.
Mean Pay Gap
2023 UK ethnicity pay gap1 Hourly pay2 Bonus pay3
Asian 13% 26%
Black 25% 48%
Multi-racial 6% 14%
Other 14% 22%
Mean Pay Gap
2023 US ethnicity pay gap1 Hourly pay2 Bonus pay3
Asian 14% 28%
Hispanic 27% 51%
Black 28% 51%
Dual or Multi 0% -36%
1. Analysis based on 77 per cent of our UK workforce that shared with us their ethnicity background, and 100 per cent of our US workforce
2. The hourly pay gap is calculated by taking the difference between the mean minority ethnic group and White hourly pay, expressed as a percentage of the
White amount
3. The bonus pay gap is calculated by taking the difference between the mean minority ethnic group and White bonus payments received in the 12 months prior to
5 April, expressed as a percentage of the White amount.
64 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Strategic report Sustainability overview
Our commitment to sustainability
We are committed to the sustainable economic and social development
of our footprint markets, helping people to thrive long-term.
With a long-standing presence in parts of the world where Embedding sustainability across our business is a strategic
sustainable finance can have a significant impact, we priority for the Group. To accelerate our Sustainability agenda,
facilitate the movement of capital to where it is needed most. the Group’s inaugural Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO)
We apply our knowledge across our market footprint and was appointed in 2022. Since then, our dedicated CSO
the innovative mindset of our teams to create financial organisation – which houses our Sustainable Finance,
solutions that help to address challenges and support Sustainability Strategy, Net Zero Delivery, Strategic Initiatives
sustainable growth. and Environmental and Social Risk Management teams – acts
as a centre of excellence and a catalyst for the execution of
The work we do to accelerate the transition to net zero,
the Group-wide sustainability strategy and the achievement
lift participation in the economy and reset globalisation
of our net zero roadmap.
is fundamental to our business.
We focus on delivering both our long-term sustainability goals
These three areas of focus are known as our Stands and
– our Sustainability Aspirations – as well as our short-term
inform our overall strategy, including our approach to
targets and immediate priorities – our Sustainability
sustainable finance, our advocacy efforts on behalf of our
Strategic Pillars.
markets and engagement with our employees and society.
Sustainability continues to be included in the 2024 Group
Further details can be found in Our Stands on page 26
scorecard and 2024–26 Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) with
performance measures that align with our Sustainability
Aspirations and Sustainability Strategic Pillars.
Further details can be found in the Directors’ remuneration
report on pages 182 to 216
Independent Limited Assurance Disclaimer
Ernst & Young LLP (EY) were appointed to provide We report on Sustainability and Environmental, Social
independent limited assurance over certain data points and Governance (ESG) matters throughout this Annual
within this Annual Report, indicated with a caret symbol (^). Report, in particular in the following sections: (i) Strategic
The assurance engagement was planned and performed report, Sustainability overview on pages 66 to 79; (ii)
in accordance with the International Standard on Sustainability review on pages 92 to 133; (iii) Risk review
Assurance Engagements (UK) 3000 (July 2020), Assurance on pages 298 to 313; and (iv) in the Supplementary
Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical sustainability information section on pages 504 to 516.
Financial Information (ISAE (UK) 3000 (July 2020)). This
independent assurance report is separate from EY’s audit In this ‘Sustainability overview’, we set out our approach
report on the financial statements and is available at and progress relating to sustainability and its content is
sc.com/sustainabilityhub. This report includes further subject to the statements included in: (i) the ‘Forward-
detail on the scope, respective responsibilities, work looking statements’ section; and (ii) the ‘Basis of
performed, limitations and conclusions. preparation and caution regarding data limitations’
section provided under ‘Important notices’ at pages 519
We obtained independent limited assurance on the and 520. Additional information can be accessed
Group’s Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions through our suite of supporting sustainability reports
(excluding fugitive emissions) by Global Documentation and disclosures via sc.com/sustainabilityhub.
Ltd. We also obtained reasonable assurance on the
Group’s Scope 3 emissions associated with business
travel (air travel) from Eco–Act. These verifications were
conducted in accordance with the ISO 14064-3 Greenhouse
gases standard.
66 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Strategic
report
A word from our Chief Sustainability Officer,
Marisa Drew
In 2022, the CSO organisation was established within
Standard Chartered to build on the Group’s long-standing
sustainability agenda. Since its creation, we have made
substantial progress, by continuing to embed sustainability
across the organisation and strengthening our support
for clients on their transition journeys. The longer-term vision
and areas of focus expressed by our Stands and our
Sustainability Aspirations have helped shape our near-
term execution priorities defined by our Sustainability
Strategic Pillars.
Our Sustainable Finance franchise has generated over
$720 million^, or over six per cent of our total Corporate,
Commercial and Institutional Banking (CCIB) income in 2023,
a year-on-year growth rate of 42 per cent. Following on from
this performance and building on the momentum in our
business, our focus turns to our stated ambition to deliver at
least $1 billion in sustainable finance income in 2025. To do
that, we are hard at work investing in people, systems and
infrastructure to build further capability and capacity. This
enables our teams across the Group to support our clients’
tTrhains ssieticotnio ann pdr osuvisdtaesin aanb olev gerroviwewth o pfl athnes Gbyro duepp’sl oaypinpgro leanchd itnog s, ustainability and details on
chaoswh ,w trea mdea, ncaogrpeo crlaimtea fiten arinskc.i nAg m aonrde addevtaisiolerdy sSeursvtiaceinsa, abnilidty Review section, including our
pbrroovaiddeinr gri scka vpiietawl, tiso aavdavialanbclee tfrhoem n epxatg wea [vXeX o] ft osu [sXtXa]in faobr filuitryt her information.
and technological solutions.
Sustainability overview content map
Introduction and overview Page 66
Aspiration 1: Mobilise $300 billion of Sustainable Finance by 2030 Page 68
Aspiration 2: Operationalise our interim 2030 financed emissions
Sustainability targets to meet our 2050 net zero ambition Page 68
Aspirations:
our long-term goals
Aspiration 3: Enhance and deepen the sustainability ecosystem Page 68
Commitment Aspiration 4: Drive social impact with our clients and communities Page 68
and approach to
sustainability
Pillar 1: Scale Sustainable Finance income Page 70
Sustainability
Strategic Pillars: Pillar 2: Further embed sustainability across the organisation Page 71
our short-term
targets and Pillar 3: Deliver on the annual milestones set forth in our net zero
Page 73
immediate priorities roadmap
Pillar 4: Leverage our innovation hubs Page 75
Managing Climate Risk Page 76
Non-financial and sustainability information statement Page 79
Values noted with a caret symbol (^) are subject to independent limited assurance by EY, report available at sc.com/sustainabilityhub.
Strategic
report
Our footprint – with its access to capital markets and
operations in regions most vulnerable to climate change
– means that Standard Chartered sits at the intersection
between capital providers and those who need it most. For
many of our markets and clients, getting to net zero will be a
long and complex task. Their transition must be on a just basis
to address environmental challenges without sacrificing their
economic growth and social development ambitions.
Delivering a just transition brings significant opportunity for
innovation and growth. To leverage this, we created a series
of thematic innovation hubs in 2023, covering: Adaptation
Finance, Blended Finance, Carbon Markets and Nature
Positive Solutions. Each hub is helping to advance emerging
thematic areas of sustainability that are nascent, but offer
the potential for scale, and are where the Group has a core
competency. The themes covered by the hubs are particularly
relevant to our clients across our footprint markets and serve
to support innovation at the forefront of sustainability.
Furthermore in 2023, we expanded our work on social
sustainability, with a dedicated investment to bring the
breadth of our Sustainable Finance offering together with
our commitment to the people and communities we serve.
We have also welcomed new team members including
experts in blended finance, sustainable and transition finance,
climate risk, nature and carbon accounting, building up our
people power to allow us to effectively leverage the CSO
organisation across the Group, as we look to deliver on
our strategy.
As I reflect on my first full year at the bank, it is clear that our
sustainability ambition has the unwavering commitment of
the Group’s Board of Directors and the Management Team,
backed by an extraordinary level of enthusiasm and
engagement. Looking ahead to 2024, my priority is on driving
our four Sustainability Strategic Pillars: scaling up Sustainable
Finance; further embedding sustainability across the Group;
delivering on our net zero roadmap; and leveraging our
innovation hubs to drive ecosystem development and
future income.
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 67
Strategic report Sustainability overview
Sustainability Aspirations:
our long-term goals
Since 2016, the Group’s approach to sustainability has been underpinned by a suite
of Sustainability Aspirations. During 2023, we refreshed and consolidated our
Sustainability Aspirations into four overarching long-term goals, each supported by
key performance indicators. Together, these reflect our commitment to sustainable
social and economic development.
Sustainability Aspiration Progress to date
Aspiration 1: Across our markets, many clients are at the early phase $87.2bn^
Mobilise $300 billion of evaluating the risks and opportunities associated with their
of Sustainable transition to a low-carbon economy. We leverage a full suite of
cumulative mobilisation of
Finance1,2 Sustainable Finance solutions – including loans, bonds, trade
Sustainable Finance from
finance and carbon trading – to support their transition. January 2021 to September 2023
against our commitment to
These are underpinned by our Sustainable Finance frameworks
mobilise $300 billion by 2030
that outline how we apply the ‘green’, ‘sustainable’ or
‘transition’ labels across products and transactions. We also
work with retail and wealth clients to mobilise diverse sources
of capital in support of social and environmental outcomes.
Aspiration 2: We aim to reach net zero in our financed emissions by 2050. 11 out of 12
Operationalise our To date, the Group has set and disclosed science-based
interim 2030 financed interim 2030 financed emissions targets for 11 high-emitting
of the NZBA high-emitting
emissions targets to sectors, in line with guidance from the Net-Zero Banking
sectors covered by 2030
meet our 2050 net Alliance (NZBA). science-based financed
zero ambition emissions targets
We are working across our businesses and functions, and
alongside our clients to deliver these targets, notwithstanding
the challenges presented by a material portion of our markets
not having a commitment to achieve net zero by 2050.
Aspiration 3: We are utilising our experience and networks to actively Leadership roles
Enhance and contribute in a leadership position to global partnerships and in key global
deepen the initiatives that enhance the sustainability ecosystem.
partnerships and
sustainability
ecosystem These range from those that support the mobilisation and initiatives
scaling of sustainable finance, to furthering the development of
the voluntary carbon markets and fostering innovative solutions including GFANZ, GISD, NZBA
in the arena of conservation finance, through to supporting the as further detailed on page 96
advancement of social topics underpinning the UN Sustainable
Development Goals (SDGs).
Aspiration 4: We seek to partner with our clients and communities to 61%
Drive social impact mobilise social capital and drive economic inclusion as well
with our clients and as entrepreneurship through our Futuremakers initiative.
of the Group’s employees
communities
Our Employee Volunteering programme encourages participated in employee
volunteering activities in our
employees to volunteer and organise activities, such as
communities in 2023
fundraising, that align to the Group’s community strategy
or respond to local issues.
1 Mobilisation of Sustainable Finance is defined as any investment or financial service provided to clients that supports: (i) the preservation and/or improvement of
biodiversity, nature or the environment; (ii) the long-term avoidance/decrease of GHG emissions, including the alignment of a client’s business and operations
with a 1.5 degree Celsius trajectory (known as transition finance); (iii) a social purpose; or (iv) incentivising our clients to meet their own sustainability objectives
(known as sustainability-linked finance).
2 Values noted with a caret symbol (^) are subject to independent limited assurance by EY, report available at sc.com/sustainabilityhub.
68 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 69
Strategic
report
Key initiatives and partnerships
Throughout 2023, senior leaders across Standard Chartered were involved in the leadership of
several collaborative initiatives including, but not limited to, those listed in the table below.
Global Investors for Our Group Chairman co-chairs the United Nations’ GISD Alliance, which has set
Sustainable Development ambitious objectives to scale up long-term finance and investment in sustainable
(GISD) Alliance development.
Glasgow Financial We are active participants of the GFANZ Principals Group, an ambitious
Alliance for Net Zero programme to generate the commitment, investment and alignment
(GFANZ) needed to drive forward the transition to net zero. Our Group CEO co-chairs
the GFANZ working group on Capital Mobilisation to Emerging Markets and
Developing Economies.
Net-Zero Banking Our Group Head of Conduct, Financial Crime and Compliance chairs the
Alliance (NZBA) NZBA – the industry-led, UN-convened and sector-specific alliance for banks
under GFANZ.
World Economic Forum’s Our Group CEO and CSO are part of the World Economic Forum’s Alliance of
Alliance of CEO Climate CEO Climate Leaders. This is a CEO-led community committed to raising bold
Leaders climate ambition and accelerating the net zero transition by setting science-
based targets, disclosing emissions and catalysing decarbonisation and
partnerships across global value chains.
United Nations
Principles for Our Head of Sustainable Finance Solutions co-chairs the PRB Adaptation
Responsible Banking Finance working group, which developed a comprehensive framework and
(PRB) Adaptation practical guidance for banks to set credible adaptation finance targets.
Finance working group
Integrity Council for the Our Head of Carbon Markets Development serves on the board of the ICVCM,
Voluntary Carbon Markets which is focused on developing high-quality carbon markets. Our Group CEO
(ICVCM) sits on the Distinguished Advisory Group of the ICVCM, which is involved in the
development of carbon markets around the world.
Center for Climate- We formally joined CCAF, which was established by Rocky Mountain Institute,
Aligned Finance in 2023. Standard Chartered participates in CCAF working groups for the
(CCAF) Aviation and Aluminium industries. The Group is a signatory to both the
Poseidon Principles, a global framework for assessing and disclosing the
climate alignment of financial institutions’ shipping portfolios and the
Sustainable STEEL Principles, which helps banks to measure and disclose the
alignment of steel lending portfolios with 1.5 degree Celsius climate targets.
Ocean Risk and In 2023, the Group became a member of ORRAA. Our Head of Nature serves
Resilience Action on the Ocean Investment Protocol Steering Committee convened by the UN
Alliance (ORRAA) Global Compact Ocean Stewardship Coalition.
Strategic report Sustainability overview
Sustainability Strategic Pillars: our short-
term targets and immediate priorities
Our four Sustainability Strategic Pillars represent our near-term strategic focus. Each member of the Group Management Team
is responsible for strategically driving climate and sustainability considerations within their region, business segment or function
in line with the Group’s net zero roadmap. Selected sustainability-related measures are incorporated into Long-Term Incentive
Plan (LTIP) awards granted to senior executives and the Group scorecard, which contains financial and strategic measures and
is applicable for the majority of our employees.
Pillar 1: Scale Sustainable Finance income1
We are building a scalable Sustainable Finance franchise, supporting our clients on their transition journeys by developing
customised solutions that speak to their needs and ambitions. Our Sustainable Finance franchise generated over $720 million^
between January and December 2023 against our longer-term target of at least $1 billion annual income by 2025.
Sustainable Finance income1
Product ($m) 2023 2022 YoY
Transaction Banking 188 80 135%
Trade & Working Capital 96 60 60%
Cash Management 92 20 360%
Financial Markets 393 326 21%
Macro Trading 76 54 41%
Credit Markets 306 268 14%
Financing & Securities Services 11 4 175%
Lending & Portfolio Management 139 102 36%
720^ 508 42%
1 Values noted with a caret symbol (^) are subject to independent limited assurance by EY, report available at sc.com/sustainabilityhub.
Our position in the market
As a UK-headquartered international bank, we work to deploy capital across our global markets. As can be seen in our 2023
Sustainable Finance Impact Report, we have raised $8.4 billion^ of sustainable liabilities in developed markets, while 85 per cent
of our $17.6 billion^ Sustainable Finance asset base is located in Asia, Africa and the Middle East. We continued to expand and
develop our product suite as set out in our Green and Sustainable Finance Product Framework. In total, we had 42 product
variants across CCIB and CPBB segments, with selected products included in the table below.
CCIB CPBB
Group
Transaction Financial Markets / Personal & Business Wealth
Treasury
Banking Lending & Portfolio Banking Management
Management
Sustainable Trade Finance Green/Social/ Sustainable Deposits Sustainable Investments Standard
Sustainable Current Sustainability Bonds Sustainable Current and Chartered PLC
and Savings Accounts Sustainability-linked Bonds Savings Accounts Sustainability
ESG Derivatives Green Mortgages Bonds
Carbon Trading Green Retrofit Loans
Sustainable Repos ESG Structured
ESG Structured Investments
Investments
Green and Social Loans
Sustainability-linked Loans
ESG Advisory
Sustainable Deposits
For more information on the Group’s progress on its Sustainable Finance commitments see pages 99 to 101
Our Sustainable Finance Frameworks
• Our Green and Sustainable Product Framework governs • Informed by the International Energy Agency (IEA) Net
all activities we as an organisation view as ‘green’ or Zero Emissions by 2050 (NZE), we outline the assets and
‘social’. It is publicly available and was co-authored by activities that qualify for the ‘transition’ label under our
Morningstar Sustainalytics. Transition Finance Framework.
• Our Sustainability Bond Framework provides the basis for For more, see page 123 or visit sc.com/sustainabilityhub
the issuance of Green, Social and Sustainability bonds,
drawing on the activities that we view as green or social.
70 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 71
Strategic
report
Pillar 2: Further embed sustainability across the organisation
The CSO organisation aims to act as a catalyst for change
and centre of excellence. We foster collaboration internally
to embed sustainability across our business operations
and functions. We collaborate externally with clients and
other stakeholders who are aligned with our mission to 1. 2.
drive change. Client-level Portfolio
risk analysis steering
We aim to create a self-reinforcing cycle, which is built on
established processes, clear frameworks, engagement with
our clients and collaboration across risk and business teams.
We support our clients to deliver on their decarbonisation
plans, deploying financing and advisory services to provide
capital alongside the next wave of sustainability and
technological solutions, in which our clients are investing.
Our transition strategy also builds on the Group’s financing 3.
experience by supporting the early adopters of these services Sustainable and
in the US and Europe and leveraging this knowledge in transition finance
our core markets across Asia, Africa and the Middle East. opportunities
Our aim is to work with our clients to support their transition
and decarbonisation journeys and where clients evidence
transition, help to accelerate progress.
3. Sustainable and transition
1. Client-level risk analysis 2. Portfolio steering
finance opportunities
Environmental, social and climate Portfolio-level emissions are Products, financing and
risk assessments are integrated into calculated to set and monitor advisory services are deployed to
credit decision-making processes for financed emissions baselines and support clients transitioning their
existing and new-to-bank clients1 sectoral 2030 targets businesses and seeking to achieve
their sustainability goals
• We maintain a suite of public • Client-level emission intensities • The Group’s ESG and Transition
Position Statements that outline are modelled in accordance with Finance advisory teams prioritise
the Group’s environmental and internationally accepted carbon engagements with clients
social expectations for providing accounting principles using the associated with high Climate Risk
financial services to clients.2 Partnership for Carbon Accounting with weak or no transition plans
Financials (PCAF) methodology. and/or insufficient disclosures to
• Relationship Managers carry out
recommend enhancements.
client and/or transaction level • Science-based sectoral interim
Environmental and Social Risk 2030 targets are set for high- • Sustainability considerations are
Assessments before we provide emitting sectors in line with the incorporated into account plans
financial services.3 Group’s roadmap towards net zero and engagement strategies with
financed emissions by 2050.6 an aim to identify and prioritise
• Through client-level Climate Risk
clients that are divergent from
Assessments (CRAs), we assess • Industry or client coverage leads
portfolio-level emission pathways
the potential financial risks from are appointed as responsible
or associated with high
climate change using quantitative owners of sectoral net zero targets.
Environmental and Social Risk.
and qualitative information and
• Divergence from the portfolio-level
assign a Climate Risk grading.4 • We endeavour to support and
emission pathway is monitored
guide our clients to a low-carbon
• As part of the CRA process, a and reviewed quarterly along with
pathway by utilising our full suite
Credible Transition Plan (CTP) our exposure to clients associated
of Sustainable Finance solutions.
score is assigned for each client with high Climate Risk.7
in high-emitting sectors.4 • We continue to increase our
financing of low-carbon
• Our Prohibited Activities list
technologies and infrastructure,
details the activities that we will
including project financing in the
not finance.5
developing world where power
grid modernisation is critical.
1 Refers to applicable banking clients, please refer to sc.com/esriskframework. 6 Read more about our sectoral 2030 net zero targets in this Annual Report
2 Read more about our Position Statements at sc.com/positionstatements. on page 74.
3 For further information, please refer to sc.com/esriskframework. 7 In 2023, this commenced for Oil & Gas, Power, Steel, Aluminium and
4 Read more about our CRA process in the Risk review section of this Annual Automotive Manufacturers sectors with the rest of the sectoral reviews
report on pages 298-313. to be added from 2024.
5 Read more about our list of Prohibited Activities at
sc.com/prohibitedactivities.
Strategic report Sustainability overview
Our net zero roadmap
We aim to reach net zero carbon emissions in our financing activity by 2050 and in our own
operations by 2025. We made progress in setting interim 2030 targets for the most
carbon-intensive and highest-emitting sectors in the Group’s portfolio.
To help us remain on track, we have set short- and medium-term objectives and quantifiable targets
to manage and report on our progress on an annual basis.
2021
Launched our roadmap to net zero •
by 2050, including interim targets and
2022
a supporting methodology
Announced plans to mobilise • • Developed financed emissions baselines and
$300 billion in Sustainable Finance by 2030 interim 2030 targets for the Aviation, Shipping
and Automotive Manufacturers sectors
Published our inaugural Transition Finance Framework •
• Joined Partnership for Carbon Accounting
Financials (PCAF)
2023
Announced our enhanced Oil and Gas absolute •
financed emissions target
Updated our Power and Steel sector baselines and •
targets moving from a revenue-based intensity metric to
a production-based intensity metric
Developed financed emissions baselines and set interim • 2024
2030 targets for four additional sectors: Cement,
Aluminium, Residential Mortgages, Commercial Real • We will develop an interim 2030 financed emissions
Estate, bringing the total number of science-based target for the Agriculture sector, planned to be
targets set for high-emitting sectors to eleven communicated in our 2024 Annual Report, which will
be published in Q1 2025
Financed emissions baselines and sectoral progress •
against targets, where indicated, assured for the first • Aim to set targets for facilitated emissions
time by Ernst & Young
Calculated the Group’s facilitated emissions baseline •
from debt capital markets following the final PCAF
guidance (published in December 2023) under both the
2025
33 per cent and 100 per cent weighting factors
Updated the Group’s net zero methodological • • Aim to be net zero in our own operations
white paper, first published in 2021
2030
We will have substantially reduced our •
exposure to the Thermal Coal Mining sector in
line with our Position Statements
2032
Aim to meet the Group’s financed emissions •
interim targets set for high-emitting sectors
• Targeted end date for legacy direct Thermal
Coal Mining financing globally
2050
Aim to become net zero in our financed emissions
72 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 73
Strategic
report
Pillar 3: Deliver on the annual milestones set forth in our net zero roadmap
We aim to reach net zero emissions in our financed emissions by as financed emissions. Therefore, we have prioritised our
2050 and in our own operations by 2025. Since 2018 we have been measurement and decarbonisation efforts in the highest-emitting
working on aligning our direct and indirect emissions to the Paris and most carbon-intensive sectors of our portfolio, and where
Agreement’s goal of well below two degrees Celsius of global working with our clients can have the greatest impact. Due to
warming by the end of the century. We focus on three areas our footprint – with many emerging markets reliant on carbon-
to reduce emissions: our operations, our supply chain and intensive industries – our financed emissions may increase
financed emissions associated with our clients. The majority before they decrease but our approach is to remain aligned
of our GHG emissions are linked to our lending activities, known to a science-based 1.5 degrees Celsius pathway by 2050.
High-emitting and carbon-intensive sectors with interim 2030 targets
Thermal Included in analysis
Agriculture
Coal Mining 2021
2022
Commercial
Real Estate Steel 2023
2024
Residential
Mortgages Oil and Gas
2030 financed
emissions targets
Aluminium Power
Automotive
Cement
Manufacturers
Aviation Shipping
Financed emissions
A brief summary of the movements in the 11 high-emitting sectors is The emissions intensity of the Residential Mortgage portfolio has
as follows: remained consistent year-on-year and will decrease over time in
Aluminium sector emissions have trended down as the power line with electricity grid decarbonisation.
supply into the smelters has become less carbon-intensive and the The Shipping sector’s alignment delta has worsened due to the
Group has funded clients with less emission intensive operations. impact from the container sector, which enjoyed very strong profits
The physical intensity of the Automotive manufacturers’ sector in 2022, encouraging owners to sail faster, leading to higher
(CO per km distance travelled) decreased slightly due to the emissions. Looking ahead, tightening environmental regulations
Grou 2 p having a larger exposure to zero tailpipe Electric Vehicle and mechanisms from both the International Maritime
manufacturing within the Group’s Automotive Manufacturers Organization (IMO) and European Union (EU) are expected to
portfolio. lead to better alignment between shipowners’ behaviours and
the Group’s 2030 targets.
The physical intensity of the Cement sector has remained relatively
consistent year-on-year. This will be a hard-to-abate sector in the The Steel sector is hard-to-abate and requires significant capital
medium-term until lower carbon energy sources are utilised, to decarbonise. Decarbonisation is reliant on the shift from
especially in emerging markets where we are actively engaging blast to electric arc furnaces and many of our emerging markets
with our clients on their decarbonisation plans and strategies. are at early stages of their transition journeys. While the emissions
intensity of our steel portfolio remained relatively unchanged
In the Commercial Real Estate portfolio, building intensities have
year-on-year, we are actively working with our clients in this sector
fallen due to investment in regions with lower emissions power
to support their transition.
supplies and certain markets’ power suppliers decarbonising.
We continue to work with technology providers on solutions for Our Thermal Coal Mining exposure is decreasing in line with our
individual building emissions measurement and management. coal revenue thresholds as detailed in our Position Statements
and related contractual commitments. No new Thermal Coal
Absolute Oil and Gas emissions remained relatively stable
Mining use of proceeds loans have been provided in line with our
year-on-year and are significantly lower versus the baseline year.
Position Statements.
We continued to pursue overall portfolio decarbonisation, pivoting
exposure to counterparties and technologies that are less The Group completed the sale of its global Aviation finance
carbon-intensive. leasing business and the majority of its aviation lending book in
August 2023. Noting the distortive effects that the sale of this
The Power sector’s intensity decreased as some of our contractual
business would create in our emissions profile, the progress
obligations to coal-fired power plants ended. We also actively
against this target has been paused for year-end 2023. This will
pursued lower emissions technologies, including new gas power
be re-assessed based on the size and materiality of the remaining
plants, and expanded our renewables financing.
portfolio in 2024.
Strategic report Sustainability overview
Setting science-based targets
The Group set interim 2030 financed emissions targets for In 2023, the Group:
11 of the 12 high-emitting sectors with Agriculture being the • Strengthened our Oil and Gas emissions metric from
12th planned for 2024. a revenue-based intensity to an absolute financed
We follow the Net-Zero Banking Alliance (NZBA) guidance emissions target and trajectory. This places an emissions
on sectors for target-setting, further expanding the budget on the sector and requires a reduction of 29 per
Transport sector into Automotive Manufacturers, Aviation cent by 2030 when calculated from a 2020 baseline,
and Shipping. aligned with the IEA’s NZE trajectory. Our approach
We set four sectoral targets and updated three targets in ensures we maintain a direct link to absolute GHG
2023. All targets have been informed by what the Group emissions in the Oil and Gas sector and allows us to
considers pre-eminent scientific forward-looking scenario directly assess our progress with the IEA NZE scenario
providers. This includes the International Energy Agency that we have set our target against. By moving away
(IEA) for energy sectors, the Mission Possible Partnership from a revenue-based intensity metric, we remove an
(MPP) for metals, International Maritime Organization element of financial volatility and complexity from
(IMO) for shipping and Carbon Risk Real Estate Monitor our calculations that could restrict transparency and
(CRREM) for the residential real estate sector. accountability in measuring and disclosing our financed
GHG emissions. Oil and Gas is the second sector for which
For our Scope 3 financed emissions, we set science-based
the Group set an absolute financed emission target,
targets accounting for differing states of transition
in addition to our target for Thermal Coal Mining.
readiness across our markets. Due to our footprint – with
many emerging markets reliant on carbon-intensive • Updated our Power and Steel sector targets from a
industries – our financed emissions may increase before revenue-based intensity metric to a production-based
they decrease. The upper end of our 2030 target may intensity metric (i.e., emissions intensity per unit of
represent low-overshoot scenarios. However, our approach production). The progression from an economic-based
is to remain aligned to a science-based 1.5 degrees Celsius intensity to a production/physical-based intensity reduces
scientific pathway by 2050. Given our science-based the financial volatility in the calculation and improves the
approach, we will strive to update our targets both as the connection to clients’ actual GHG emissions by linking
scientific community updates their reference scenarios and directly to units of production, or a physical activity.
as data availability improves. We published the second edition of the Group’s ‘Net zero
methodological white paper – The journey continues’, which
sets out the methodology, assumptions and scientific
pathways for each high-emitting sector and is available
via sc.com/sustainabilityhub.
2030 20223 20213
2030 Target Cumulative
Scientific reduction Absolute Absolute % change
Emissions reference % from emissions Production/ emissions Production/ from
Sector1 approach2 scenario 2030 Target baseline (MtCOe) Physical intensity (MtCOe) Physical intensity baseline
2 2
CCIB w
Aluminium Production MPP 6.1 tCOe/t Maintain – 4.59^ tCOe/t – 5.62^ tCOe/t -18%
2 2 2
intensity Aluminium Aluminium Aluminium
Automotive Physical IEA APS/ 66–100 44–63% – 165^ – 178^ -7%
Manufacturers intensity NZE gCO/V.km gCO/V.km gCO/V.km
2 2 2
Cement Production IEA NZE 0.52 22% – 0.66^ – 0.67^ tCO/t -1%
2
intensity tCO/t tCO/t Cement Cement
2 2
Cement
Commercial Physical IEA APS/ 19–39 47–74% – 62^ – 73^ -15%
Real Estate intensity NZE kgCOe/sq.m kgCOe/sq.m kgCOe/sq.m
2 2 2
Oil and Gas Absolute IEA NZE 9.3 MtCOe 29% 10.3^ – 10.2^ – -21%
2
emissions
Power Production IEA APS/ 0.17–0.28 46–67% – 0.47^ – 0.52^ tCO/MWh -10%
2
intensity NZE tCO/MWh tCO/MWh
2 2
Shipping Physical IMO 2023 0% delta 0% delta – +6.4%^ delta – +2.6%^ delta
intensity
0% delta +11.8%^ delta +7.3%^ delta +4.5%
0% delta +16%^ delta +10%^ delta
Steel Production MPP 1.4–1.6 tCO/t 22–32% – 1.97^ – 2.06^ -4%
2
intensity Steel tCO/t Steel tCO/t Steel
2 2
Thermal Absolute IEA NZE 0.5 MtCOe 85% 1.6^ – 2.3^ – -52%
2
Coal Mining emissions
CPBB
Residential Physical CRREM 29–32 15–32% – 37.7^ – 37.6^ 0%
Mortgages intensity kgCOe/Sq.m kgCOe/Sq.m kgCOe/Sq.m
2 2 2
1 Values noted with a caret symbol (^) are subject to independent limited assurance by EY, report available at sc.com/sustainabilityhub.
2 For further detailed information on sectoral financed emissions and progress against targets, refer to pages 110-111.
3 Due to third-party data sets that feed into our calculations, the Group’s reported financed emissions figures have a one-year lag. The Group reports on 2022
and 2021 data in this 2023 Annual Report.
74 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 75
Strategic
report
Pillar 4: Leverage our innovation hubs
Announced in 2023, the four thematic innovation hubs – Adaptation Finance, Blended Finance, Carbon Markets and
Nature Positive Solutions – focus on emerging sustainability themes that are nascent but ripe for scale, aligned to
areas where the Group has a core competency, and are particularly suited to clients in our footprint markets.
Each hub is transversal, run by senior leaders in the CSO organisation, and aims to identify opportunities for future
returns outside of our core range of traditional products and services. By being deliberate in demonstrating leadership
to advance the ecosystem in these emerging thematic areas, the Group will be well-positioned to take advantage of
the significant and differentiated revenue potential that will result from maturation of these themes in the future.
1. Adaptation Finance In 2023, we closed the Group’s first Adaptation Finance
There is an urgent global need to unlock and scale public transaction – an adaptation letter of credit with a
and private climate adaptation finance to build shared parametric insurance provider for the renewable
societal resilience, especially across our footprint markets, energy sector.
where adaptation represents both a risk and an opportunity
We also collaborated with KPMG and the United Nations
for clients and communities.
Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNDRR) to develop the
Acknowledging our geographical footprint and the market’s first Guide to Adaptation and Resilience Finance
multiplier effect of investment in adaptation – where every (GARF), which was announced at COP28 and is due to be
dollar spent on adaptation this decade could generate up to published in early 2024.
$12 of economic benefit – it is our ambition to act decisively For more see our Adaptation Economy report via
and mobilise others on adaptation. sc.com/adaptation-economy or page 118
2. Blended Finance In 2023, we worked through international fora and industry
The Independent High-Level Expert Group on Climate groups (e.g., GFANZ) to leverage the Group’s expertise
Finance estimate that by 2030 there will be a $2.5–3 trillion and support – alongside other international banks –
per year financing gap between current baselines and what blended finance projects and programmes, including the
is required to deliver the UN Sustainable Development Goals development of frameworks for early coal retirement, and
(SDGs) in emerging markets and developing countries other hosted both the Vietnamese and Indonesian governments
than China. Blended finance – using concessional public as they launched their Just Energy Transition Partnership
funds to mobilise much larger volumes of private capital (JETP) events at COP28.
– can help to close this gap. We work to bring together
public and private expertise across the Group to help For more on Blended Finance see page 118
commercialise blended finance.
3. Carbon Markets Standard Chartered has been at the forefront of several
A high-integrity carbon market, combined with corporate initiatives that are working to ensure that high-integrity,
commitments to cut emissions and high standards of scalable carbon markets develop. We offer trading, advisory,
reporting can accelerate the global progress towards net financing and risk management services to our clients
zero by 2050. around the world.
The use of high-quality carbon credits can play a part in a In 2023, we were involved in some of the largest carbon
multi-faceted and urgent approach to decarbonisation, as market transactions, including the Regional Voluntary
it enables climate action in sectors and geographies that Carbon Market Company (RVCMC) and Climate Impact X
remain severely underfunded today. (CIX) auctions, and established primary supply partnerships
with clients in Kenya, Brazil, China and Vietnam.
Carbon credits can be complementary to a credible
corporate net zero transition plan and help bridge the gap
For more on Carbon Markets see page 119
between the emissions reductions that can be implemented
now, and the longer lead time for technological solutions
that are yet to scale.
4. Nature Positive Solutions Nature is also a critical lever for climate change mitigation
It is estimated that over half of global GDP is moderately and adaptation and the hub collaborates with the Carbon
or highly dependent upon nature. Despite its importance, Markets and Adaptation Finance hubs to explore natural
biodiversity is rapidly declining. Having applied international climate solutions and ecosystem-based adaptation
environmental and social standards in our financing for more opportunities.
than 20 years, our presence in markets with some of the
In 2023, we conducted an initial impact and dependency
richest biodiversity in the world positions us to engage with
assessment to identify our exposure to potentially material
a range of stakeholders. We are guided by our commercial
sectors in our CCIB segment. In January 2024, we joined a
ambition to increasingly shift financial flows toward nature-
cohort of early adopters of the Taskforce on Nature-related
positive outcomes and thereby contribute to the halting and
Financial Disclosures (TNFD) framework, preparing to
reversing of biodiversity loss.
publish our first TNFD-aligned disclosures in early 2026.
For more on Nature Positive Solutions see page 119
Strategic report Sustainability overview
Managing Climate Risk
The Group is exposed to Climate Risk through our clients, our own operations,
our suppliers and from the industries and markets we operate in.
Climate Risk taxonomy Description
Climate Risk The potential for financial loss and non-financial detriments arising from climate
change and society’s response to it.
Sub-Risk Types
Physical Risk Risks arising from increasing severity and frequency of climate- and weather-related events, which
can damage property and other infrastructure, disrupt supply chains, and impact food production.
It may also reduce asset valuations, leading to lower profitability for companies. Indirect effects on the
macroeconomic environment, such as lower output and productivity, may exacerbate these direct impacts.
Acute Specific event-driven weather events, including increased severity of extreme weather events,
such as cyclones, hurricanes, floods, or wildfires.
Chronic Longer-term shifts in climate patterns, such as changing precipitation patterns, sea-level rise,
and longer-term drought.
Transition Risk Risk arising from the adjustment towards a carbon-neutral economy, which will require significant
structural changes to the economy. These changes will prompt a reassessment of a wide range of asset
values, a change in energy prices, and a fall in income and creditworthiness of some borrowers.
In turn, this entails credit losses for lenders and market losses for investors.
The Group’s Board is responsible for the long-term success of Our Climate Risk Appetite Statement is approved annually by
the Group and its supporting committees consider climate- the Board and supported by Board and Group Management
and sustainability-related risks and opportunities when Team (MT) metrics across impacted risk types. The metrics
reviewing and guiding strategic decisions. Board-level are approved by the Group Risk Committee (for MT-level
oversight is exercised through the Board Risk Committee metrics) and the Board (for Board-level metrics) annually
(BRC), and regular Climate Risk updates are provided to the and any breaches are reported to the Group Risk Committee
Board and BRC. At an executive level, the Group Risk and the Board Risk Committee.
Committee has appointed the Climate Risk Management
Committee (CRMC), consisting of senior representatives
from business, risk, and other functions such as audit, which
oversees the implementation of our Climate Risk workplan Group Climate Risk Appetite Statement
and progress made by the Group in meeting regulatory
requirements. The CRMC meets at least six times a year to “The Group aims to measure and manage
monitor the Group’s Climate Risk profile, review, challenge and financial and non-financial risks arising
provide input on climate-related disclosures and stress tests
from climate change, and reduce the
and provide oversight on the development and results of
climate models. We have also strengthened country and emissions related to our own activities and
regional governance oversight for the Climate Risk profile those related to the financing of clients in
across our key markets in 2023 by cascading relevant Risk
alignment with the Paris Agreement.”
Appetite metrics, supported by management information.
For more information on the Group’s governance approach for
climate-related risks and opportunities see pages 120 to 123
We are continuously expanding the scope and coverage of our risk appetite metrics for enhanced risk identification and
management. As such, new metrics such as divergence from the Group’s interim 2030 targets across key sectors and a stress
loan impairment metric built on short-term scenario outcomes will be monitored in 2024.
Risk type Metrics reported
Credit Risk – Concentration of retail mortgage exposure with loan-to-value exceeding 80 per cent and with high
CPBB gross physical flood risk across seven of the Group’s key markets.
Credit Risk – Exposure concentration to clients with high transition risk and low transition readiness.
CCIB
Traded Risk Climate scenarios incorporated within Traded Risk stress scenarios inventory.
Country Risk Concentration of Gross Country Risk exposure to countries exposed to extreme transition and physical risks.
Enterprise-wide Sectors that are divergent from the Group’s interim 2030 targets, starting with Power, Oil and Gas, Automotive
Manufacturing and Steel sectors.
76 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 77
Strategic
report
Our approach
We manage Climate Risk according to the characteristics of the impacted risk types and are embedding Climate Risk
considerations into relevant frameworks and processes. Risk Framework Owners for the relevant Principal Risk Types are
responsible for embedding such requirements within their Risk Type Frameworks, policies, standards, as well as risk appetite
statements and metrics as appropriate and ensuring compliance to the minimum requirements defined by the Climate Risk
Policy. In 2023, we have continued to build on embedding Climate Risk into existing risk-management processes, focusing on
a ‘Business as Usual’ state to identifying, assessing, and monitoring across risk types.
Risk type Description
Credit Risk – We assess Climate Risk vulnerabilities and readiness levels for ~85–90 per cent of the CCIB corporate
CCIB portfolio for subsequent consideration within our credit decisioning process. Linkages to Credit
Underwriting Principles have been finalised for four sectors (Oil and Gas, Shipping, Commercial Real Estate,
and Mining including Steel and Aluminium), including improved climate-related analysis, portfolio-level
caps and additional data gathering measures. A key focus area in 2024 and beyond remains to further
embed Climate Risk and net zero targets into business and credit decisions.
Credit Risk – As of September 2023, we assessed physical risk for 79 per cent and transition risk for 54 per cent of our
CPBB CPBB portfolios. During 2023, the physical risk profile across products and markets has remained stable,
with slight variations in exposure to high flood risk due to enhancements in Munich Re’s flood risk model. For
key markets of the Group’s residential mortgage portfolio such as Korea and Taiwan, where homeowners’
insurance coverage does not cover damages from acute physical risk, we have established zoning policies
and corresponding risk mitigation and trigger monitoring. Our analysis of the impact from transition risk
on our residential mortgage portfolio, estimated by quantifying the robustness of borrowers’ repayment
capability across our key residential mortgage markets, shows that transition risk levels appear to be low.
Operational The focus for Operational and Technology Risk has been to assess physical risks for our properties and data
and Technology Risk centres, as well as third parties.
Country Risk Our assessment of Physical and Transition Risk Sovereign Rankings serves as an input into the annual
sovereign reviews and quarterly early warning indicators. Country limit benchmark computations also
consider climate factors.
Traded Risk We continue to assess the market impacts from Climate Risk, including an assessment of transition effects
from climate change policies and two physical risk scenarios as part of the global Traded Risk scenarios
inventory. These flow into existing Traded Risk Board-level Risk Appetite (RA) metrics.
Treasury Risk Concentration of top CCIB corporate liability providers associated with high transition risk and low levels of
mitigation are being monitored, leveraging our client-level Climate Risk Assessments.
Reputational and Climate Risk Assessments are considered as part of Reputational and Sustainability reviews for clients and
Sustainability Risk transactions in high-emitting sectors.
Model Risk Work is also underway to build in-house first generation transition risk models for our Corporates and
Sovereigns portfolios which have been used to estimate climate adjusted Expected Credit Loss and stress
testing use cases. These models will continue to be evolved over 2024 to further help our risk assessment
and portfolio management capabilities.
For more information on how the Group embeds Climate Risk considerations within the business and across Principal Risk Types see pages 127-129
Strategic report Sustainability overview
Scenario analysis Qualitative review of climate risks and opportunities in
In 2023, significant progress was made to enhance our climate annual business strategy and financial planning
scenario design and analysis capabilities. We assessed the In 2023, Climate Risk was considered as part of our formal
resilience of 95 per cent of CCIB Exposure at Default across annual corporate strategy and financial planning process.
three external scenarios based on Version 3 of the Network for In addition, we developed management scenarios with an
Greening the Financial System (NGFS). These were Net Zero aim to strengthen business strategy and financial planning
2050, Delayed Transition and Current Policies and three to support the Group’s net zero roadmap.
internal scenarios. The internal scenarios include a Base Case
We use both qualitative and quantitative aspects focusing
linked to current sovereign commitments to meet their net
on revenue reliance from clients in high-emitting sectors
zero targets, and two short term ‘tail risk scenarios’ to assess
and/or locations in regions most exposed to physical risk,
Transition Risk from a green trade war and Physical Risk from
considering adequacy of mitigation plans. The results are
population migration linked to climate change. The tail
then independently reviewed by regional and client-segment
scenarios also include second order impacts such as food
Chief Risk Officers (CROs) and the ESG and Reputational Risk
price inflation and displacement leading to decreased
team. Climate Risk impact is also included in the Risk review of
productivity. The severity of the scenarios is aligned to the
our Corporate Plan, which is considered by the Board as part
annual cyclical scenario and driven by GDP shocks in our
of their approval of the overall Corporate Plan. The 2024
key markets.
Corporate Plan includes an increase in loan impairment due
Across the NGFS scenarios, the impact on incremental to the impact from Climate Risk.
Expected Credit Loss (ECL) as of 2050 for the overall CCIB
In most cases, the physical and transition risks identified were
portfolio is highest in the Net Zero 2050 scenario, followed by
assessed to be well controlled in the short term. We are
Delayed Transition and Current Policies, primarily driven by
starting to work with our clients in high-emitting sectors by
impact on our corporate clients. Sectors such as Oil and Gas,
prioritising sustainable finance products to decarbonise their
Construction, Transportation and Utilities are most impacted,
business models and help enable their transition journeys.
primarily due to the rise in carbon prices in the scenarios and
We also continue to proactively work with clients in sectors
to some extent, by the consequent macroeconomic changes.
with lower carbon intensity and emissions such as clean
For internal scenarios, the impacts of GDP and second order
technology to support the growth of these industries. Our
risks in the short-term impacts corporate clients across
Sustainable and Transition Finance product suite and our
Transportation, Automobiles, Construction, and Commercial
dedicated Sustainable Finance, Transition Acceleration and
Real Estate sectors. The highest impact in the short-term
ESG Advisory teams, are a robust response to transition risks
(2030) is seen in the tail transition risk scenario.
in the short term, strengthening our resilience towards a
Results from the scenario analysis are consistent with the two degrees Celsius or lower transition scenario. However,
hot spots identified with our net zero strategy across high- longer-term transition risks were highlighted, particularly for
emitting sectors. At a client level, outputs from scenario the Africa and Middle East region, given its dependency on
analysis inform our Climate Risk Assessments, while at a fossil fuels; and longer-term physical risks were deemed to be
portfolio level we have put in place Risk Appetite metrics to most relevant for the Asia region.
measure stressed losses under the Base Case and Net Zero
2050 scenarios. Regulatory landscape
Key financial regulators across our footprint have proposed or
Key limitations include: (i) benign impact from physical risk
set supervisory expectations on climate and environmental
due to nascent methodologies for transforming the level of
risk management. Those expectations are broadly aligned
physical risk into business disruption, which is compounded by
with the Basel Committee principles for the management of
lack of client-level asset locations; (ii) assuming static balance
climate-related financial risks, but local implementations vary.
sheets; and (iii) client business models remaining unchanged.
We have been and are actively engaging with industry bodies
It’s also pertinent to note that while the results do not factor
and regulators to drive consistency in policymaking across our
in the potential impact from management actions from our
markets. A process has been established for tracking various
net zero strategy, outputs were reviewed by an expert panel
Climate Risk-related regulatory developments and obligations
comprising first line and second line representatives, followed
set by both financial and non-financial service regulators
by a discussion at the Climate Risk Management Committee
at Group, regional and country level, with roles and
and subsequent update to the Board Risk Committee.
responsibilities set out in the Group’s Climate Risk Policy.
For more information on the Group’s approach to scenario analysis, Regulatory requirements or enhancements are recorded
please refer to pages 309 to 313 through workplans across various country and regional teams.
78 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 79
Strategic
report
Non-financial and sustainability information statement
This table sets out where shareholders and stakeholders can find information about key non-financial matters in this report, in
compliance with the non-financial reporting requirements contained in sections 414CA and 414CB of the Companies Act 2006.
Further disclosures are available via sc.com/sustainabilityhub.
Where to find more information in this report about our policies
Reporting requirement and impact including risks, due diligence processes and outcomes Page
Description of Business model 20
business model Our strategy 24
Principal Risks Risk overview 230
and uncertainties Risk review and Capital review 230
Environmental Our operations 106
matters Our suppliers 107
Our clients – Reducing our financed emissions 108
Employees Employees 60
Employee policies and engagement 222
Health, safety and wellbeing 224
Human rights Suppliers 58
Respecting human rights 133
Social matters Society 59
Drive social impact through our clients and communities 97
Anti-corruption Code of conduct and ethics 130
and bribery Fighting financial crime 131
Political donations 218
Non-financial Supplementary people information 498
KPIs Supplementary sustainability information 504
2023 Sustainability Aspirations 508
See the Sustainability Review section from pages 92 to 133 for further information and details
Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
In line with our ‘comply or explain’ obligation under the UK’s Financial Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules, we can confirm that
we have made disclosures consistent with the TCFD recommendations and recommended disclosures in this Annual Report.
Our TCFD disclosures also meet the new climate-related financial disclosure requirements contained in section 414CB of the
Companies Act 2006. We have also taken into account the implementation guidance included in the TCFD 2021 Annex.
Section TCFD recommendation Page
Governance a) The Board's oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities 120
b) Management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related risks and opportunities 120
Strategy a) Climate-related risks and opportunities the Group has identified over the short, medium and long term 309
Impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the Group’s businesses,
b) 78
strategy and financial planning
Resilience of the Group’s strategy, taking into consideration different climate-related scenarios,
c) 309
including a two degrees Celsius or lower scenario
Risk a) Our processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks 298
Management
b) Our processes for managing climate-related risks 298
How the Group’s processes for identifying, assessing and managing climate-related
c) 127
risks are integrated into the Group’s overall risk management
Metrics The metrics used by the Group to assess climate-related risks and opportunities in line with our strategy
a) 66
and Targets and risk management processes
b) Disclosures on Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions and related risks 105
The targets used by the Group to manage climate-related risks and opportunities and our
c) 25
performance against targets
For a more detailed TCFD Summary and Alignment Index referencing relevant disclosures see pages 511 to 516
Strategic report Viability statement
Viability statement
The directors are required to issue a viability statement • Sharp falls in world trade volumes and disruption to global
regarding the Group, explaining their assessment of the supply chains, including the severe worsening of trade
prospects of the Group over an appropriate period of time tensions and rise of protectionism.
and state whether they have reasonable expectation that
• Inflationary pressures in the global economy including
the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its
volatility in commodity prices
liabilities as they fall due.
• Significant rises in interest rates and depreciation in
The directors are to also disclose the period of time for which
emerging market currencies, resulting in heightened
they have made the assessment and the reason they consider
sovereign risk
that period to be appropriate.
• Financial market volatility, including significant moves in
In considering the viability of the Group, the directors have
asset prices driven by a combination of macroeconomic
assessed the key factors including, but not limited to;
and geopolitical events
inflationary pressures, spikes in oil prices, market volatility,
economic recession, and geopolitical events likely to affect This year, the primary focus has been on:
the Group’s business model and strategic plan, future
• The effect of high interest rates and persistent inflation,
performance, capital adequacy, solvency and liquidity taking
including spikes in the oil price, combined with severe
into account the emerging risks as well as the principal risks.
market volatility and severe economic downturns in China
The viability assessment has been made over a period of and other economies.
three years, which the directors consider appropriate as it
• The impact of intensifying geopolitical tensions on
is within both the Group’s strategic planning horizon and,
economic and financial activity in our footprint markets
the basis upon which its regulatory capital stress tests are
including an assessment of both financial and
undertaken and is representative of the continuous level of
operational risks.
regulatory change affecting the financial services industry.
The directors will continue to monitor and consider the • Testing liquidity resilience of the Group in case it
appropriateness of this period. experiences a very severe stress informed by different,
actual stress events observed for e.g. Silicon Valley Bank
The directors have reviewed the corporate plan, the output
or by Credit Suisse
of the Group’s formalised process of budgeting and strategic
planning. For the 2024 Corporate Plan, the forward-looking In 2023, the Group undertook a number of Climate Risk stress
cash flows and balances includes the anticipated impact of tests, including those mandated by the Hong Kong Monetary
global interest rates on revenues and inflationary pressure on Authority, Central Bank UAE and internal management
costs . The Corporate Plan is evaluated and approved each scenario analysis. We expanded our portfolio coverage to
year by the Board with confirmation from the Group Chief assess the resilience of 95 per cent of CCIB Exposure at Default
Risk Officer that the Plan is aligned with the Enterprise Risk across three external scenarios based on Version 3 of the
Management Framework and within Group Risk Appetite Network for Greening the Financial System (NGFS) and three
Statement and considers the Group’s future projections of internal management scenarios. The three internal scenarios
profitability, cash flows, capital requirements and resources, refer to one bespoke base case and a physical and a
liquidity ratios and other key financial and regulatory ratios transition tail risk scenario.
over the period. The Corporate Plan details the Group’s key
The loan impairment (LI) intensity which measures the level
performance measures, of forecast profit, CET 1 capital ratio
of gross expected credit losses (ECL) against the exposure
forecast, return on tangible equity forecasts, cost to income
at default (EAD) enables us to assess the relative size of
ratio forecasts and cash investment projections. The Board
our exposure subject to potential losses from climate risks.
has reviewed the ongoing performance management
LI intensity is not currently material.
process of the Group by comparing the reported results
to the budgets and corporate plan. Overall, we believe that the level of potential credit losses can
be mitigated by continuing to take necessary actions which
The Group performs enterprise-wide stress tests using a
the Group is already doing across sectors, engaging with our
range of bespoke hypothetical scenarios that explore the
clients on this topic and support them in enhancing their
resilience of the Group to shocks to its balance sheet and
climate transition plans. The impact of sea level rises under
business model.
various Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC)
To assess the Group’s balance sheet vulnerabilities and capital Representative Concentration Pathways (RCP) scenarios was
and liquidity adequacy, severe but plausible macro-financial used to explore the Physical Risk impact on the Consumer,
scenarios explore shocks that trigger one or more of: Private and Business Banking (CPBB) residential mortgage
portfolio. In 2023, Climate Risk was also considered as part
• Global slowdowns including recessions in China, Asian and
of our formal annual corporate strategy and financial
Western economies that can be acute or more protracted,
planning process.
resulting in severe declines in property prices
88 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 89
Strategic
report
Under this range of scenarios, the results of these stress For further details of information relevant to the directors,
tests demonstrate that the Group has sufficient capital and assessment can be found in the following sections of the
liquidity to continue as a going concern and meet regulatory annual report and accounts:
minimum capital and liquidity requirements.
• The Group’s Business model (pages 20 to 23) and Strategy
To assess the Group’s business model vulnerabilities, extreme (pages 24 and 25)
and unlikely scenarios are explored that, by design, result in
• The Group’s current position and prospects including factors
the Group’s business model no longer being viable these
likely to affect future results and development, together
scenarios have included for the Group escalation of
with a description of financial and funding positions are
geopolitical tensions which results in reciprocal target
described in the client segment reviews and regional
sanctions and the bifurcation of financial system between
reviews (pages 28 to 33)
the West and East , impacting key industries including
technology, telecommunications and financial institutions. • An update on the key risk themes of the Group is discussed
Insights from these reverse stress tests can inform strategy, in the Group Chief Risk Officer’s review, found in the
risk management and capital and liquidity planning. Strategic Report (pages 44 to 51)
Further information on stress testing is provided in the • The BRC section of the Director’s report (pages 168 to 173)
Risk management approach section (page 314).
• The Group’s Topical and Emerging Risks, sets out the key
The directors further considered the Group’s Internal Liquidity
external factors that could impact the Group in the coming
Adequacy Assessment Process (ILAAP), which considers the
year (pages 48 to 51).
Group’s liquidity position, its framework and whether sufficient
liquidity resources are being maintained to meet liabilities as • The Group’s Enterprise Risk Management Framework
they fall due. Funding and liquidity was considered in the details how the Group identifies, manages and governs
context of the risk appetite metrics, including the ADR and risk (pages 314 to 319)
LCR ratios.
• The Group’s Risk profile provides an analysis of our risk
The Board Risk Committee (BRC) exercises oversight on exposures across all major risk types (page 320 to 337)
behalf of the Board of the key risks of the Group and reviews
• The capital position of the Group, regulatory development
the Group’s Risk Appetite Statement and Enterprise Risk
and the approach to management and allocation of
Management Framework, including reviewing the
capital are set out in the Capital review (pages 338 to 343)
appropriateness and effectiveness of the Group’s risk
management systems, key controls and considering the Having considered all the factors outlined above, the directors
implications of material regulatory change proposals, and confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the
reviewing reports on principal risks, including Climate Risk, Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its
to the Group’s business. liabilities as they fall due over the period of the assessment up
to 31 December 2026.
The BRC receives regular reports reports on the Group’s key
risks, as well as updates on the macroeconomic environment, Our Strategic report from pages 01 to 89 has been reviewed
geo-political outlook, market developments, and relevant and approved by the Board.
regulatory updates. In 2023, the BRC had deeper discussion
covering: CCIB Risk deep dives with particular focus on Our Strategic report from pages 01 to 89 has been
change management and regulatory programmes; the reviewed and approved by the Board.
CPBB portfolio, particularly credit cards, personal loans,
partnerships, Financial Crime and ICS risks; the Group’s
approach to Liquidity and Funding Risk management;
Country risk including Sovereign risk; credit portfolio
management activities risk and progress made in balance
sheet optimisation; Reputational and Sustainability Risk Bill Winters
including the Group’s approach to Environmental, Social Group Chief Executive
and Governance Risk;, Climate Risk particularly climate risk
23 February 2024
integration and scenario analysis;, Safety and Security Risk;,
Credit Risk review particularly large exposures, resources and
scope of climate risk assessment and stress testing; and Chief
Risk Officer treasury report, including risk observations and
recommendations around the current balance sheet; SC
Ventures Risk and governance. The BRC also held a joint
horizon scanning session with the Audit Committee on the
forward looking geo-political agenda and emerging risks.
Based on the information received, the directors’ considered
the principal uncertainties as well as the principal risks in their
assessment of the Group’ viability, how these impact the risk
profile, performance and viability of the Group and any
specific mitigating or remedial actions necessary.
Sustainability review
Sustainability review
92 Sustainability review
94 Sustainability Aspirations
99 Sustainability Strategic Pillars
120 Climate and sustainability-related
governance
125 Managing Environmental and Social Risk
126 Managing Climate Risk
130 Integrity, conduct and ethics
S[[ upporting
financial
institutions
with sustainable
trade loans]]
In September, we launched a
sustainable trade loan offering for
financial institutions. The loans can
be used for renewable energy sector
projects such as the installation of
wind turbines, purchase of solar panels,
and sale of renewable energy battery
storage systems. The offering builds
on our sustainable trade finance
proposition, announced in 2021,
designed to help companies
implement more sustainable
practices across their ecosystems and
build more resilient supply chains.
Read more at sc.com/sustainabletrade
90 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Sustainability review
Sustainability review
This section provides information on the Group’s approach to sustainability,
related governance structures, how we manage environmental,
social, and climate risk, and progress in 2023. Further information is
available in the Risk review section from pages 298 to 313 and in the
Supplementary sustainability information section from pages 504 to 516.
Sustainability Review content map
Driving a sustainable future Page 67
Our approach to sustainability reporting Page 93
Aspiration 1: Mobilise $300 billion of Sustainable Finance by 2030 Page 94
Aspiration 2: Operationalise our interim 2030 financed emissions
Sustainability targets to meet our 2050 net zero ambition Page 95
Aspirations:
our long-term goals
Aspiration 3: Enhance and deepen the sustainability ecosystem Page 96
Aspiration 4: Drive social impact with our clients and communities Page 97
Approach to
sustainability
Pillar 1: Scale Sustainable Finance income Page 99
Sustainability
Strategic Pillars: Pillar 2: Further embed sustainability across the organisation Page 102
our short-term
targets and Pillar 3: Deliver on the annual milestones set forth in our net zero
Page 105
immediate priorities roadmap
Pillar 4: Leverage our innovation hubs Page 118
Climate- and sustainability-related governance Page 120
Managing environmental and social risk Page 125
Managing climate risk Page 126
Integrity, conduct and ethics Page 130
Disclaimer Independent Limited Assurance
We report on sustainability and Environmental, Social and Ernst & Young LLP (EY) were appointed to provide
Governance (ESG) matters throughout this Annual Report, in independent limited assurance over certain data points
particular in the following sections: (i) Sustainability overview within this Annual Report, indicated with a caret symbol (^) in
in the Strategic report, Sustainability overview on pages 66 this report. The assurance engagement was planned and
to 79; (ii) Sustainability review on pages 92 to 133; (iii) Risk performed in accordance with the International Standard on
review and Capital review on pages 298 to 313; and (iv) in the Assurance Engagements (UK) 3000 (July 2020), Assurance
Supplementary Sustainability Information section on pages Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical
504 to 516. Financial Information (ISAE (UK) 3000 (July 2020)). This
independent assurance report is separate from EY’s audit
In this ‘Sustainability review’ chapter, we set out our approach
report on the financial statements and is available at
and progress relating to sustainability and its content is
sc.com/sustainabilityhub. This report includes further detail
subject to the statements included in (i) the ‘Forward-looking
on the scope, respective responsibilities, work performed,
statements’ section; and (ii) the ‘Basis of preparation and
limitations and conclusions.
caution regarding data limitations’ section provided under
‘Important notices’ on pages 519 and 520. Additional We obtained independent limited assurance on the Group’s
information can be accessed through our suite of supporting Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (excluding
sustainability reports and disclosures via our website fugitive emissions) by Global Documentation Ltd. We also
www.sc.com. obtained reasonable assurance on the Group’s Scope 3
emissions associated with business travel (air travel) from
Eco-Act. These verifications were conducted in accordance
To access the Group’s suite of sustainability-related reports and
disclosures please visit sc.com/sustainabilityhub. with the ISO 14064-3 Greenhouse gases standard.
92 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 93
Sustainability
review
Our suite of sustainability-related reports and disclosures
Report or disclosure Description
Diversity, Equality and Includes gender and ethnicity pay gap assessment and the actions we have taken to support a culture
Inclusion Impact Report of inclusion.
Equator Principles As a member since 2003, we report on how we apply the principles to ensure that the projects we finance
Reporting and advise on are developed in a manner that is socially responsible and reflect sound environmental
management practices.
ESG Data Pack The ESG and sustainability data disclosed within this Annual Report is provided in a spreadsheet format.
ESG Reporting Index Alignment table referencing our disclosures using voluntary sustainability reporting frameworks: SASB
Standards, Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and World Economic Forum (WEF) Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics.
Modern Slavery This report sets out the steps we have taken to assess and manage the risk of modern slavery and human
Statement trafficking in our operations and supply chain.
Net zero methodological Describes the Group’s approach to net zero laying out the methodologies we have used to calculate our
white paper – The journey financed and facilitated emissions and setting our interim 2030 targets at sector level.
continues
Position Statements and We use our cross-sector and sector-specific Position Statements and Prohibited Activities list to assess whether
Prohibited Activities to provide financial services to clients.
PRB Reporting and Self- The Group’s disclosures on actions undertaken related to the six principles as defined by the United Nations
assessment Principles for Responsible Banking (PRB).
Sustainable Finance We present the impact of our Sustainable Finance assets on a portfolio basis.
Impact Report
Sustainable Finance Our Green and Sustainable Product Framework and Sustainability Bond Framework outline our definition of
Frameworks green, sustainable finance. Our Transition Finance Framework sets out the acitivites and entities that we
consider eligible for transition finance.
TCFD Summary and A summary and alignment index referencing the Group’s relevant disclosures against the Taskforce on
Alignment Index Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) framework can be found on pages 511 to 516.
Driving a sustainable future Our approach to sustainability reporting
With a long-standing presence in parts of the world where The Group includes Environmental, Social and Governance
sustainable finance can have a significant impact, we (ESG) and sustainability information in this Annual Report,
facilitate the movement of capital to where it is needed providing investors and stakeholders with an understanding
most. We apply our knowledge across our market footprint of the implications of relevant sustainability-related risks and
and the innovative mindset of our teams to create financial opportunities, and progress against our objectives. In line
solutions that help to address challenges and support with our ‘comply or explain’ obligation under the UK Financial
sustainable growth. Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules, we confirm that we have
made disclosures consistent with the TCFD recommendations
The work we do to accelerate the transition to net zero, lift
and recommended disclosures throughout this Annual Report.
participation in the economy and reset globalisation is
For our TCFD content table please refer to page 79 and for our
fundamental to our business. These three areas of focus are
TCFD Summary and Alignment Index see pages 511 to 516.
known as our Stands and inform our overall strategy, including
our approach to sustainability, our advocacy efforts on behalf In preparing this report we have given consideration to
of our markets and engagement with our employees and (but do not align in full with) the guidance provided by the
society. International Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB) in 2023:
IFRS S1 and IFRS S2, noting that IFRS S2, although largely based
Our Stands are described in more detail on
page 26 of this Annual Report on TCFD, requires a more granular level of disclosure. IFRS S1
and S2 are voluntary standards and compliance is not yet
required in the Group’s listing locations.
Our approach to sustainability
Materiality is considered to be the threshold of significance
Embedding sustainability across our business is a strategic
for reporting sustainability-related risks and opportunities
priority for the Group. To accelerate our sustainability agenda,
for users of financial statements: investors and wider
the Group’s inaugural Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO)
stakeholders. We consider guidance provided by the IFRS
was appointed in 2022. Since then, our dedicated CSO
Foundation, which focuses on meeting the sustainability
organisation – which houses our Sustainable Finance,
data and information needs of our investors. Determining
Sustainability Strategy, Net Zero Delivery, Strategic Initiatives
materiality for sustainability-related risks and opportunities
and Environmental and Social Risk Management teams –
should consider both quantitative and qualitative aspects
acts as a centre of excellence and a catalyst for the execution
related to sustainable social and economic development.
of the Group-wide sustainability strategy, including the
achievement of our net zero roadmap. Our approach to sustainability reporting will continue to
evolve subject to regulatory and voluntary standards across
We focus on delivering both our long-term sustainability goals
our listing locations and footprint markets. Our disclosures are
– our Sustainability Aspirations – as well as our short-term
guided by international standards, frameworks and principles
targets and immediate priorities – our Sustainability
to the extent relevant to our business. We publish an ESG
Strategic Pillars.
Reporting Index against the disclosures captured in the GRI
Universal and select Topic Standards, relevant metrics from
sector-specific SASB Standards and WEF’s Stakeholder
Capitalism Metrics.
Sustainability review
Sustainability Aspirations:
our long-term goals
The Group’s approach to sustainability is underpinned by our Stands and shaped
by our Sustainability Aspirations. During 2023, we refreshed and consolidated our
Sustainability Aspirations into four overarching long-term goals, each supported by
key performance indicators. Together, these reflect our commitment to our brand
promise, here for good, in support of sustainable social and economic development.
Aspiration 1: Mobilise $300 billion of Sustainable Finance
Across our markets, many clients are at the early phase of evaluating the risks and opportunities associated with their transition
to a low-carbon economy. We leverage a full suite of Sustainable Finance solutions – including loans, bonds, trade finance and
carbon trading – to support their transition. These are underpinned by our Sustainable Finance frameworks that outline how we
apply the ‘green’, ‘sustainable’ or ‘transition’ labels across products and transactions. We also work with corporate, retail and
wealth clients to mobilise diverse sources of capital in support of social outcomes.
We have mobilised $87.2 billion^ of Sustainable Finance from January 2021 through to September 2023 against our commitment
to mobilise $300 billion by 2030. We made strong progress against this target in the year and we anticipate that our future
progress will not be linear as our markets mature further, providing opportunities for us to support our clients in their transition.
Sustainable Finance Mobilised1
Jan 2021 –
Sep 2023
Oct 2022 – Jan 2021 – $m
Sep 2023 Sep 2022¹0 Cumulative
Product $m $m Progress
Use of Proceeds2,3 7,678 11,849 19,527
Sustainability-Linked Loans (SLLs)3,4 8,319 19,781 28,100
Transition Finance3,5 418 344 762
SME Lending3,6 1,014 1,839 2,853
Microfinance3,6 774 1,166 1,940
Green Mortgages3,7 538 4,284 4,822
Mergers & Acquisitions (M&A)/Advisory8 1,432 4,354 5,786
Green and Social Bonds facilitated9 9,617 13,806 23,423
Total Sustainable Finance Mobilised11 29,790 57,423 87,213^
Of the above
Corporate, Commercial & Institutional Banking (CCIB) 28,238 51,300 79,538
Consumer, Private & Business Banking (CPBB) 1,552 6,123 7,675
Total Sustainable Finance Mobilised11 29,790 57,423 87,213^
1 Mobilisation of Sustainable Finance is defined as any investment or financial service provided to clients that supports: (i) the preservation and/or improvement of
biodiversity, nature or the environment; (ii) the long-term avoidance/decrease of GHG emissions, including the alignment of a client’s business and operations
with a 1.5 degree Celsius trajectory (known as transition finance); (iii) a social purpose; or (iv) incentivising our clients to meet their own sustainability objectives
(known as sustainability-linked finance).
2 Amounts include transactions with restricted use of the proceeds of the financing that align to our Green and Sustainable Product Framework.
3 Lending transactions are measured as per the loan commitment/underwritten amount provided to the counterparty.
4 SLLs refer to any type of loan instrument for which the economic characteristics can vary depending on whether the counterparty achieves ambitious, material
and quantifiable predetermined sustainability performance targets (SPTs). The counterparties’ sustainability performance is measured by applying predefined
SPTs to predefined KPIs. The use of proceeds in relation to an SLL is not a determinant in its categorisation and, in most instances, SLLs will be used for general
corporate purposes. SLLs are not issued in line with the Group’s Green and Sustainable Product Framework.
5 Amount includes any financial service provided to clients to support them to align their business and/or operations with a 1.5-degree trajectory issued in line with
our Transition finance framework.
6 SME and Microfinance lending which is the provision of finance to Development Assistance Committee (DAC) lower- and middle- lower income countries as
per the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). The inclusion of business banking is linked to the ‘Access to Finance’ sub-theme
within the Group’s Green and Sustainable Product Framework incorporating employment generation, and programmes designed to prevent and/or alleviate
unemployment, including through the potential effect of small and medium enterprise (SME) financing and micro-finance.
7 Green Mortgages are loans from Consumer, Private & Business Banking (CPBB) where the underlying property meets a specific energy rating. Value mobilised in
2021 includes mortgages originated before 2021 but identified as Green in 2021.
8 M&A/Advisory represents where the Group is the financial advisor to the transaction. The amount attributed to M&A/Advisory mobilisation is proportional and
represents the total deal size divided by the number of financial advisors on the deal.
9 Capital market bonds are measured by the proportional bookrunner share of facilitated activities as determined by third-party league table rankings based on
the level of services provided.
10 During 2023 additional deals that meet the definition of the Group’s Green and Sustainable product framework were identified and approved as sustainable
resulting in a restatement to cumulative mobilisation in the prior year. Use of proceed transactions have increased from $9,820mn to $11,849mn, Transition Finance
transactions have increased from $144mn to $344mn and Mergers and Acquisitions have increased from $3,184mn to $4,354mn, Sustainability Linked Loans have
increased from $13,745mn to $19,781mn and Green Mortgages have increased from $3,500mn to $4,354mn.
11 Values noted with a caret symbol (^) are subject to independent limited assurance by EY, report available at sc.com/sustainabilityhub.
94 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 95
Sustainability
review
Aspiration 2: Operationalise our interim 2030 financed emissions targets to meet our 2050 net zero ambition
The Paris Agreement recognises that the world needs to reach To date, the Group has set and disclosed science-based
net zero carbon emissions by 2050 to mitigate the worst interim 2030 financed emissions targets for 11 high-emitting
effects of climate change and ensure a habitable planet for sectors, in line with guidance from the Net-Zero Banking
the next generation. This will require efforts from a wide range Alliance (NZBA). We are working across our businesses and
of stakeholders, governments and the private sector to functions, and alongside our clients to deliver these targets,
accelerate the just transition to a low-carbon, nature positive notwithstanding the challenges presented by a material
and climate-resilient economy. We aim to reach net zero in our portion of our markets not having a commitment to achieve
financed emissions by 2050 and in our operations by 2025. net zero by 2050.
Scientific
Emissions reference Drivers of sectoral
Sector approach scenario decarbonisation Our approach in 20237
CCIB
Aluminium Production MPP¹ Decarbonisation of the power supply into the We have set a production intensity baseline using
intensity aluminium smelter. COe per tonne of aluminium produced. The 2023
2
portfolio progress (based on the 2022 year-end
balance sheet) was subsequently calculated.
Automotive Physical IEA APS/ Change in powertrain from internal The industry has changed the assumptions for
Manufacturers intensity NZE2,3,4 combustion engines (ICE) to electric vehicles calculating tailpipe emissions and adopted a test
(EVs) for light commercial vehicle procedure that better reflects real-world driving
manufacturers. conditions. We have therefore adjusted the 2021
baseline and subsequent progress accordingly.
Cement Production IEA NZE2,4 Removal of coal in the cement manufacturing We have set a production intensity baseline using
intensity process and utilising lower-carbon energy CO per tonne of cement produced. The 2023
2
sources. portfolio progress was subsequently calculated.
Commercial Physical IEA APS/ Lower-carbon electricity supply and retrofitting We have set a physical intensity baseline using
Real Estate intensity NZE2,3,4 buildings to improve energy efficiency. COe per square metre. The 2023 progress of
2
portfolio was subsequently calculated.
Oil and Gas Absolute IEA NZE2,4 Reducing emissions associated with Oil and We have re-baselined during the year from a
emissions Gas production and supporting our clients on revenue intensity to an absolute emission basis.
their transition towards lower-emission The 2023 portfolio progress was subsequently
intensive energy sources and renewable energy calculated.
portfolios.
Power Production IEA APS/ Supporting our clients on their transition away We have re-baselined during the year from a
intensity NZE2,3,4 from high-emitting fuels in favour of lower- revenue to a production intensity using CO per
2
emitting fuels and a transition to renewable megawatt hour produced. The 2023 portfolio
energy sources. progress was subsequently calculated.
Shipping Physical IMO 20235 Financing modern best-in-class vessels Following revisions to the IMO decarbonisation
intensity equipped with latest design and energy strategy, Poseidon Principles have added two
efficiency measures. Use of alternative fuels additional GHG strategy scenarios: the minimum
and operational efficiency measures such as and striving trajectories. We have recalculated
slow steaming and weather routing services our portfolio alignment deltas to the released
can enhance decarbonisation. trajectories.
Steel Production MPP1 Improving steel plant efficiency and replacing We have set a production intensity baseline using
intensity coal furnaces with electric arc furnaces. CO per tonne of steel produced. The 2023
2
portfolio progress was subsequently calculated.
Thermal Absolute IEA NZE2,4 Exposure is decreasing in line with contractual No new Thermal Coal Mining use of proceeds
Coal Mining emissions commitments. loan have been provided in line with our Position
Statements.
Aviation Physical MPP1 The Group completed the sale of its global Noting the distortive effects that the sale of this
intensity aviation finance leasing business and the business would create in our emissions profile for
majority of its aviation lending book in this sector, the progress against this target has
August 2023. been paused for year-end 2023. This will be
re-assessed based on the size and materiality
of the remaining portfolio in 2024.
CPBB
Residential Physical CRREM6 Lower carbon electricity supply and We have set physical intensity baseline using
Mortgages intensity retrofitting buildings to improve energy COe per square metre. The 2023 portfolio
2
efficiency. progress was subsequently calculated.
1 MPP – Mission Possible Partnership – Industrial decarbonisation forward- 6 CRREM – Carbon Risk Real Estate Monitor – European Union backed
looking pathway provider most prominent in the metals industry. foundation to provide forward-looking pathways for the real estate sector.
2 IEA – International Energy Agency – Pre-eminent forward-looking pathway 7 For further information, please refer to our ‘Net zero methodological white
provider for energy sectors. paper – The journey continues’ publication. Sectoral emissions are calculated
3 APS – Announced Policies Scenario – a 1.7 degree Celsius low overshoot in CO 2 except where other GHGs are material which are noted as CO 2 e (this
scenario. includes Oil and Gas, Thermal Coal Mining, Shipping, Aluminium, Commercial
4 NZE – Net Zero Emissions – a 1.5 degree Celsius aligned scenario. Real Estate and Residential Mortgages)
5 IMO – International Maritime Organization – Global shipping regulator.
Sustainability review
Aspiration 3: Enhance and deepen the sustainability ecosystem
We are utilising our expertise and networks to actively contribute in a leadership position to global partnerships and initiatives
that enhance and further develop the sustainability ecosystem. These range from those that support the mobilisation and
scaling of Sustainable Finance, to furthering the development of voluntary carbon markets and fostering innovative solutions in
the arena of conservation finance, through to supporting the advancement of social topics underpinning the UN Sustainable
Development Goals (SDGs).
Key initiatives and partnerships
Throughout 2023, senior leaders across Standard Chartered were involved in the leadership of several collaborative
initiatives including, but not limited to, those listed in the table below.
Global Investors for Our Group Chairman co-chairs the United Nations’ GISD Alliance, which has set ambitious
Sustainable Development objectives to scale up long-term finance and investment in sustainable development.
(GISD) Alliance
Glasgow Financial Alliance We are active participants of the GFANZ Principals Group, an ambitious programme to
for Net Zero (GFANZ) generate the commitment, investment and alignment needed to drive forward the
transition to net zero. Our Group CEO co-chairs the GFANZ working group on Capital
Mobilisation to Emerging Markets and Developing Economies.
Net-Zero Banking Our Group Head of Conduct, Financial Crime and Compliance chairs the NZBA – the
Alliance (NZBA) industry-led, UN-convened and sector-specific alliance for banks under GFANZ.
World Economic Forum Our Group CEO and CSO are part of the WEF Alliance of CEO Climate Leaders. This is a
(WEF) Alliance of CEO CEO-led community committed to raising bold climate ambition and accelerating the
Climate Leaders net zero transition by setting science-based targets, disclosing emissions and catalysing
decarbonisation and partnerships across global value chains.
United Nations Principles
Our Head of Sustainable Finance Solutions co-chairs the PRB Adaptation Finance
for Responsible Banking
working group, which developed a comprehensive framework and practical guidance
(PRB) Adaptation Finance
for banks to set credible adaptation finance targets.
working group
Integrity Council for the Our Head of Carbon Markets Development serves on the board of ICVCM which is
Voluntary Carbon Markets focused on developing high-quality carbon markets. Our Group CEO sits on the
(ICVCM) Distinguished Advisory Group of the ICVCM, which is involved in the development
of carbon markets around the world.
Center for Climate- We formally joined CCAF, which was established by Rocky Mountain Institute, in 2023.
Aligned Finance (CCAF) Standard Chartered participates in CCAF working groups for the Aviation and
Aluminium industries. The Group is also a signatory to both the Poseidon Principles,
a global framework for assessing and disclosing the climate alignment of financial
institutions’ shipping portfolios and the Sustainable STEEL Principles, which helps
banks to measure and disclose the alignment of steel lending portfolios with 1.5°C
climate targets.
Ocean Risk and Resilience In 2023, the Group became a member of the ORRAA. Our Head of Nature serves on the
Action Alliance (ORRAA) Ocean Investment Protocol Steering Committee convened by the UN Global Compact
Ocean Stewardship Coalition.
For further information on the Group’s external engagement related to our four thematic innovation hubs,
Adaptation Finance, Blended Finance, Carbon Markets and Nature Positive Solutions, refer to page 118
96 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 97
Sustainability
review
Aspiration 4: Drive social impact with our clients and communities
We seek to partner with our clients and communities to mobilise social capital and drive economic inclusion and
entrepreneurship through our Futuremakers initiative. We aim to foster collaboration with local partners to support young
people and economic development across our markets.
Futuremakers
Established in 2019, Futuremakers by Standard Chartered is our global youth economic empowerment initiative, which aims
to help disadvantaged young people learn, earn and grow.
In 2023, we contributed $14.6 million to Futuremakers, including donations from the Group and fundraising of $1.7 million from
our employees and partners. With our international and local partners, in 2023 alone we reached more than one million
young people through Futuremakers, including providing financial education to 159,190 unbanked or young people.
We published the latest Futuremakers Impact Report to share progress and capture lessons learned through Futuremakers.
In the past five years, we have reached more than 2.1 million young people, across 43 markets. We were able to exceed our
initial $75 million fundraising target reaching $93.3 million by end of 2023.
Nearly 517,000 of the over 2.1 million young people reached participated in intensive Futuremakers activities. And of those:
More than Over More than More than More than
72,000 40,000 39,000 46,000 12,000
adolescent girls were girls and young young people secured young people jobs created by
supported to continue women showed employment improved their entrepreneurs that
in secondary increased confidence business-related were supported by
education and self-esteem knowledge and skills Futuremakers
activities
Access to finance for female entrepreneurs Supporting young people with disabilities
Futuremakers partners with Sightsavers and Youth Business
Futuremakers’ women entrepreneurs programmes, known
International, who worked with the African Disability Forum
as Women in Tech and Women in Entrepreneurship in Asia,
to develop a series of inclusion resources to build greater
have expanded from 91 to 13 markets – adding South
disability confidence for readers, and help partners
Africa, Saudi Arabia, Taiwan and Singapore – with a
understand how to include young people with disabilities
network of alumni established.
in their Futuremakers programmes.
• In Africa, the Middle East and the US, Futuremakers
Women in Tech has partnered with Village Capital to Futuremakers in 2024 and beyond
provide financing for alumni. With a primary focus on Based on our successes and learning since 2019, we have
women-led, impactful start-ups, this project provides set out a seven-year strategy for Futuremakers to maximise
dedicated financial support for micro-businesses that impact with a consistent approach to measurement,
are addressing local and global challenges. So far, 107 evaluation and impact analysis.
young women have signed up for the alumni network
and expressed interest in financing. Five investments Between 2024 and 2030 we aim to provide $120 million
totalling $375,000 have been agreed, and at least to Futuremakers with the ambition to create and sustain
another three investments are expected in early 2024. 140,000 jobs, focusing on two target groups:
• For female entrepreneurs in Kenya, at an earlier stage in • Helping 70,000 disadvantaged young women to gain
establishing their sustainable, environmentally focused skills and sustainable employment.
ventures, there is financial support from our innovative • Supporting entrepreneurs to build thriving green and
revolving loan fund with Youth Business International social micro-businesses and create 70,000 jobs.
and Somo. As of end of September 2023, the fund has
supported 60 low-income, high-potential entrepreneurs All programmes target disability, gender and financial
aged 18–35 from marginalised communities and inclusion. During 2024 we plan to develop a methodology
contributed directly to the creation of 188 jobs. to measure the wider societal impacts of Futuremakers,
which we will then apply to all future projects.
• At COP28, we held a Futuremakers Youth Panel as part of
Read more about Futuremakers by Standard Chartered
the Business Fights Poverty Climate Justice Summit. We
at sc.com/futuremakers
heard first-hand from our Women in Tech alumni about
their green and social ambitions, the problems they are
tackling and some of the financing solutions that are
needed to scale for a sustainable and inclusive future.
1 The nine original markets for Women in Tech as part of Futuremakers were US, Ghana, Kenya, Nigeria, UAE, Zambia, Bahrain, Pakistan, and Korea.
Sustainability review
Gender Health and education
To unleash girls’ potential, Standard Chartered and later the In some of our footprint markets, we support projects, which
Standard Chartered Foundation have supported 1,044,359 provide basic health and education services as preconditions
girls and young women through Goal. We were able to to economic empowerment.
exceed our target to reach one million girls through our global
• In Nepal and Bangladesh we support eye health and
education programme by the end of 2023. Since its launch,
environmental projects.
Goal has become an internationally recognised global, sport
and activity-based movement operating in more than • In India, we have supported eye health since 2003 and
20 markets, equipping adolescent girls with the confidence, supported the screening of more than 2,700 villages to
knowledge and skills they need to be economic leaders in ensure they are free from avoidable-blindness.
their families and communities.
Since 2017, our WASHE (water, sanitation and hygiene
In 2023, we announced our sponsorship of the Women of education) programme has reached more than 880,000
the World Foundation as their Global Girls Champion. The beneficiaries, including over 416,000 women. Tangible
programme of events concludes on International Women’s improvements include over 100 water ATMs installed and
Day in March 2024 and aims to promote the power and over 5,300 sanitation facilities constructed, creating 1.07 billion
potential of girls and non-binary young people in the UK litres of annual freshwater capacity.
and globally.
Financial inclusion
In partnership with Primark, we worked with IDEO.org to
design and test peer-led, financial health training for workers
in factories in Vietnam. A successful pilot with approximately
170 workers tested a model supporting individuals to identify
and understand their money personality, how to set
financial goals, save and invest, improve their budgeting
and understand available social protections. During 2024,
we intend to explore how to scale this model across our
broader Futuremakers portfolio.
Employee volunteering
In 2023, 61% of colleagues gave back to their communities by contributing over
61%
76,000 days to support worthwhile causes.
Our Employee Volunteering programme won several awards, including the
prestigious Lord Mayor’s Dragon Award in the Inclusive Employment category, for of colleagues gave back to their
our UK-based Futuremakers RISE (Reach, Inspire, Support, Empower) programme communities through employee
which focuses on employability and mentorship delivered in partnership with volunteering
the East London Business Alliance. In China, Standard Chartered became the
only international bank to be recognised in the Top 10 of China’s Employee
Volunteering Enterprises in 2023.
98 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 99
Sustainability
review
Sustainability Strategic Pillars: our short-
term targets and immediate priorities
Our four Sustainability Strategic Pillars represent our near-term strategic focus. Each member of the Group Management Team
is responsible for strategically driving climate and sustainability considerations within their region, business segment or function
in line with the Group’s net zero roadmap. Selected sustainability-related measures continue to be included in the 2024-26
Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) awards granted to senior executives and within the 2024 Group scorecard, which contains
financial and strategic measures and is applicable for the majority of our employees.
Further details can be found in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 182-216
Pillar 1: Scale Sustainable Finance income
We are building a scalable Sustainable Finance franchise, supporting our clients on their transition journeys by developing
customised solutions that speak to their needs and ambitions. Our Sustainable Finance franchise generated over
$720 million between January and December 2023 against our longer-term target of at least $1 billion annual income
by 2025. This represents over 6 per cent of our total CCIB income in 2023, a year-on-year growth rate of 42 per cent.
Sustainable Finance income1
2023 2022 YOY
Product $m $m $m
Transaction Banking 188 80 135%
Trade & Working capital 96 60 60%
Cash Management 92 20 360%
Financial Markets 393 326 21%
Macro Trading 76 54 41%
Credit Markets 306 268 14%
Financing & Securities Services 11 4 175%
Lending & Portfolio Management 139 102 36%
Total 720^ 508 42%
1 Values noted with a caret symbol (^) are subject to independent limited assurance by EY, report available at sc.com/sustainabilityhub.
As a UK-headquartered international bank we work to deploy Sustainable Finance assets and Sustainability-
capital across our global markets. As can be seen on the Linked assets
following pages and in our 2023 Sustainable Finance Impact
Our Sustainable Finance income includes net income
Report, we have raised $8.4 billion of sustainable liabilities in
generated from our green, social and sustainable lending
developed markets, while 85 per cent of our $17.6 billion
activity, as well as from clients recognised as green, social
sustainable finance asset base is located in Asia, Africa and
or sustainable pureplays.
the Middle East.
Our Sustainable Finance assets reflect the assets on our
In 2023, we continued to expand and develop our Sustainable
balance sheet generated as a result of this green, social and
Finance product suite, with 42 product variants as set out in
sustainable lending activity, and it is against these assets
our Green and Sustainable Product Framework. Co-authored
which we raise sustainable liabilities.
with Morningstar Sustainalytics – a leading ESG data,
research and ratings firm – our framework is reviewed The Group’s Sustainable Finance asset base increased by
annually to ensure that it reflects the latest markets trends 31 per cent to $17.6 billion between September 2022 and
and industry standards. September 2023. The majority of our Sustainable Finance
asset base ($13.6 billion of the $17.6 billion) is made up of
Our pureplay clients are also key in advancing our progress
lending to green projects such as renewable energy projects,
to achieving our Sustainable Finance goals. These are
green commercial real estate and funding for the
companies that generate at least 90 per cent of their
development of rail projects.
revenues from activities outlined in our Green and Sustainable
Product Framework. Their significance lies in their ability to Our social finance assets make up the remaining $3.5 billion
deliver credible and robust impact, driven by the inherent of our total Sustainable Finance asset pool and encompasses
green and socially sustainable nature of their business models categories such as healthcare, education and access to
and operations. finance in low income countries.
Read more in our Sustainable Finance Impact Report
at sc.com/sfimpactreport
Sustainability review
Green finance assets1,2
Sep 2023 Sep 2022
Theme $m $m SDGs
Clean Transportation 901 942
Electric vehicles (EVs) 197 94
EV battery manufacturers 372 307
Manufacturing of specialised component parts of EVs 112 –
Rail 220 541
Climate Change Adaptation 4 –
Energy Efficiency 482 –
LED lighting 7 –
Modernisation of broadband network 475 –
Green Buildings 8,742 7,014
Green buildings 5,066 3,216
Mortgage portfolio HK 3,657 3,785
Mortgage portfolio TW/SG 19 13
Pollution Prevention and Control 14 102
Portfolio of Green Projects 351 – Multiple
Renewable Energy 3,100 2,227
Grid expansion 102 59
Hybrid wind & solar 38 154
Hydropower 32 25
Manufacture of components for renewable energy technology 457 379
Solar 940 785
Waste to energy 166 111
Wind 1,178 714
Energy storage 68 –
Green hydrogen 9 –
Mixed renewables 110 –
Sustainable Water and Wastewater Management – 10
Total Green Assets 13,594 10,295
Portfolio of green and social projects³ 473 – Multiple
1 Amounts included in the table are as of September 2023 and September 2022 and are aligned to the Group’s Sustainable Finance Impact Report available at
sc.com/sfimpactreport. September 2023 and 2022 figures have been prepared on the same basis as the Impact Report.
2 Values noted with a caret symbol (^) are subject to independent limited assurance by EY, report available at sc.com/sustainabilityhub.
3 The underlying assets could potentially span across various categories, including renewable energy, sustainable water and wastewater management, access to
essential services and food security. These assets, while included in the overall totals, remain unidentified in terms of specific green and social classification until
allocation reports are received.
100 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 101
Sustainability
review
Social finance assets1,2
Sep 2023 Sep 2022
$m $m SDGs
Access to water 72 42
COVID-19 – 39
Access to essential services 145 105
Education infrastructure – universities 6 –
Healthcare infrastructure – hospitals 131 101
Provision of supporting healthcare-related products and services 8 4
Road infrastructure 46 57
Access to finance 3,062 2,930
SME lending 2,506 2,589
Microfinance 555 341
Affordable basic infrastructure 198 –
Sewage treatment 1 –
Telecommunications/Internet connectivity 197 –
Food security 22 –
Total Social Assets 3,545 3,173
Total Green and Social Finance Assets 17,612^ 13,468
Sustainability-Linked assets1,2
Sep 2023 Sep 2022
$m $m
Total Sustainability-Linked loans 4,805 3,422
Total Sustainability-Linked assets 4,805 3,422
Total Green and Social finance and Sustainability-Linked assets1,2,3
Sep 2023 Sep 2022
$m $m
CCIB 17,103 10,505
CPBB 5,314 6,385
Sustainable liabilities1,2
Sep 2023 Sep 2022
Theme $m $m
Total bond issuances 2,353 2,083
Total sustainable term deposits 4,554 3,154
Total sustainable accounts 1,027 335
Total sustainable retail current and savings accounts and deposits 513 217
Total Sustainable Liabilities 8,447^ 5,789
1 Amounts included in the table are as of September 2023 and September 2022 and are aligned to the Group’s Sustainable Finance Impact Report available at
sc.com/sfimpactreport. September 2023 and 2022 figures have been prepared on the same basis as the Impact Report.
2 Values noted with a caret symbol (^) are subject to independent limited assurance by EY, report available at sc.com/sustainabilityhub.
3 Our Sustainable Liabilities are referenced against our Sustainable Assets held in aggregate by SCB Group. The features of our Sustainable Liabilities products are
clearly signposted in product documentation to clients as ‘sustainable’.
See sc.com/sfimpactreport for more highlights on our Green and Social Finance assets in 2023.
CPBB sustainable investing momentum
Sustainable investing (SI) assets under management (AUM) increased 25 per cent year-on-year to $13.3 billion in 2023, driven
by an expansion of the SI universe and focused client engagement. This figure includes Mutual Funds, Exchange Traded Funds,
Bonds, Equities, and Structured Products. We will look to disclose against advised sustainable AUM in future periods. For further
information on our Sustainable Investments universe, refer to sc.com/sustainable-investing.
Sustainability review
Pillar 2: Further embed sustainability across the organisation
The CSO organisation aims to act as a catalyst for change Our transition strategy also builds on the Group’s financing
and a centre of excellence. We foster collaboration internally experience by supporting the early adopters of these services
to embed sustainability across our business operations and in the US and Europe, and leveraging this knowledge in our
functions. We collaborate externally with clients and other core markets across Asia, Africa and the Middle East. Our aim
stakeholders who are aligned with our mission to drive is to work with our clients to support their transition and
change. This is achieved by: decarbonisation journeys and where clients evidence
transition, help to accelerate progress.
• People – Rolling out an expanding curriculum of
sustainability- and climate-related training across the
Group.
• Processes – Integrating our 2030 sectoral net zero targets
into our credit risk appetite and capital allocation processes, 1. 2.
allowing us to track, monitor and continually assess Client-level Portfolio
progress against our targets. risk analysis Steering
• Technology – Investing to build a robust single-source data
architecture to facilitate engagement with our clients,
including automated or semi-automated tools that will
support decision-making and analysis of the expected
impact of a transaction on the Group’s financed emissions.
We aim to create a self-reinforcing cycle, which is built on
established processes, clear frameworks, engagement with 3.
our clients and collaboration across risk and business teams. Sustainable and
We support our clients to deliver on their decarbonisation transition finance
plans, deploying financing and advisory services to provide opportunities
capital alongside the next wave of sustainability and
technological solutions in which our clients are investing.
3. Sustainable and transition
1. Client-level Risk analysis 2. Portfolio Steering
finance opportunities
Environmental, social and climate Portfolio-level emissions are Products, financing and advisory
risk assessments are integrated into calculated to set and monitor services are deployed to support
credit decision-making processes for financed emissions baselines and clients transitioning their businesses
existing and new-to-bank clients1 sectoral 2030 targets and seeking to achieve their
sustainability goals
• We maintain a suite of public • Client-level emission intensities are • The Group’s ESG and Transition
Position Statements that outline the modelled in accordance with Finance advisory teams prioritise
Group’s environmental and social internationally accepted carbon engagements with clients associated
expectations for providing financial accounting principles using the with high Climate Risk with weak
services to clients.² PCAF methodology. or no transition plans and/or
insufficient disclosures to
• Relationship Managers carry out • Science-based sectoral interim 2030
recommend enhancements.
client and/or transaction level targets are set for high-emitting
Environmental and Social Risk sectors in line with the Group’s • Sustainability considerations are
Assessments before we provide roadmap towards net zero financed incorporated into account plans and
financial services.3 emissions by 2050.6 engagement strategies with an aim
to identify and prioritise clients that
• Through client-level Climate Risk • Industry or client coverage leads are
are divergent from portfolio-level
Assessments (CRAs), we assess the appointed as responsible owners of
emission pathways or associated
potential financial risks from climate sectoral net zero targets.
with high Environmental and
change using quantitative and
• Divergence from portfolio-level Social Risk.
qualitative information and assign
emission pathway is monitored and
a Climate Risk grading.4 • We endeavour to support and
reviewed quarterly along with our
guide our clients to a low-carbon
• As part of the CRA process, a Credible exposure to clients associated with
pathway by utilising our full suite
Transition Plan (CTP) score is high Climate Risk.7
of Sustainable Finance solutions.
assigned for each client in high-
emitting sectors.4 • We continue to increase our
financing of low-carbon technologies
• Our Prohibited Activities list details
and infrastructure including project
the activities that we will not finance.5
financing in the developing world
where power grid modernisation
is critical.
1 Refers to applicable banking clients, please refer to sc.com/esriskframework. 6 Read more about our sectoral interim 2030 targets in this Annual Report on
2 Read more about our Position Statements at sc.com/positionstatements. page 74.
3 For further information, please refer to sc.com/esriskframework. 7 In 2023, this commenced for the Oil and Gas, Power, Steel, Aluminium and
4 Read more about our CRA process in the Risk review section of this Annual Automotive Manufacturers sectors, with the rest of the sectoral reviews to be
Report on pages 298-305. added from 2024.
5 Read more about our list of Prohibited Activities at
sc.com/prohibitedactivities.
102 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 103
Sustainability
review
Education and training
We continued to build the Group-wide sustainability-related • Bespoke training has been provided to clusters of
education and training programme. The overarching practitioners across all lines of defence, ranging from CCIB,
objective of our upskilling programme is to establish CPBB, Risk, CFCC and Audit on a broad range of topics:
foundational knowledge on sustainability across the Group, from how physical and transition risks may manifest, to
while tailoring in-depth, capability-based curricula to cater specialised topics around how climate stress tests are
to the needs of practitioners and sustaining the momentum conducted and how we embed Climate Risk into Credit
in continuous learning in line with industry best practices. Risk processes.
This objective is achieved by the continued development of • At a foundational level, we encourage all employees across
our in-house sustainability curricula and partnerships with our global footprint to improve their understanding on how
leading academic institutions, including Imperial College we embed sustainability into our business, operations and
London and Kite Climate School, to ensure that we benefit communities, and how they can actively play their part in
from cutting-edge expertise in sustainability and remain at this journey. 4,870 colleagues completed this programme in
the forefront of industry development. A tiered curriculum 2023, a total of 20,436 colleagues since the launch in 2022.
has been rolled out leveraging both in-house and external
• To further embed sustainability and continuous learning
expertise via this two-pronged approach.
into the Group’s day-to-day operations, 48 ad-hoc training
• Given the role that the Board plays in sustainability courses were also held throughout the year that reached
governance, the Group Board and subsidiary Boards 3,369 employees, covering specific learning needs and
received training on climate scenarios, with a focus on topics, including the Group’s progress related to sectoral
regulatory expectations, key features of industry-level net zero target setting, sector-specific voluntary carbon
climate scenarios, in-house base and tail risk scenarios markets and Sustainable Finance products and related
and key second-order impacts from climate change. governance.
• In addition, 154 country and regional CEOs and Heads of In 2024, we plan to further refine the programmes to target
Business joined targeted training covering the energy specific roles in the Group and further build knowledge and
transition and related financing opportunities, clean expertise in Sustainable Finance and Environmental and
technology, and sustainability-related risks and regulation. Social Risk Management.
Sustainability review
Our net zero roadmap
We aim to reach net zero carbon emissions in our financing activity by 2050 and in our own
operations by 2025. We made progress in setting interim 2030 targets for the most
carbon-intensive and highest-emitting sectors in the Group’s portfolio.
To help us remain on track, we have set short- and medium-term objectives and quantifiable targets
to manage and report on our progress on an annual basis.
2021
Launched our roadmap to net zero •
by 2050, including interim targets and
2022
a supporting methodology
Announced plans to mobilise • • Developed financed emissions baselines and
$300 billion in Sustainable Finance by 2030 2030 targets for the Aviation, Shipping and
Automotive Manufacturers sectors
Published our inaugural Transition Finance Framework •
• Joined Partnership for Carbon Accounting
Financials (PCAF)
2023
Announced our enhanced Oil and Gas absolute •
financed emissions target
Updated our Power and Steel sector baselines and •
targets moving from a revenue-based intensity metric to
a production-based intensity metric
Developed financed emissions baselines and set interim • 2024
2030 targets for four additional sectors: Cement,
Aluminium, Residential Mortgages, Commercial Real • We will develop an interim 2030 financed emissions
Estate, bringing the total number of science-based target for the Agriculture sector, planned to be
targets set for high-emitting sectors to eleven communicated in our 2024 Annual Report, which will
be published in Q1 2025
Financed emissions baselines and sectoral progress •
against targets, where indicated, assured for the • Aim to set targets for facilitated emissions
first time by Ernst & Young
Calculated the Group’s facilitated emissions baseline •
from debt capital markets following the final PCAF
guidance (published in December 2023) under both the
2025
33 per cent and 100 per cent weighting factor
Updated the Group’s net zero methodological • • Aim to be net zero in our own operations
white paper, first published in 2021
2030
We will have substantially reduced our •
exposure to the Thermal Coal Mining sector
in line with our Position Statements
2032
Aim to meet the Group’s financed emissions •
interim targets set for high-emitting sectors
• Targeted end date for legacy direct Thermal
Coal Mining financing globally
2050
Aim to become net zero in our financed emissions
110044 SSttaannddaarrdd CChhaarrtteerreedd –– AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22002233
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 105
Sustainability
review
Pillar 3: Deliver on our annual milestones set forth in our net zero roadmap
Our emission sources
We aim to reach net zero carbon emissions in our financed emissions by 2050 and in our own operations by 2025. Since 2018 we
have been working to align our direct and indirect emissions to the Paris Agreement’s goal of well below two degrees Celsius of
global warming by the end of the century. We focus on three areas to reduce emissions: our operations, our supply chain, and
financed emissions associated with our clients.
To access the Group’s updated ‘Net zero methodological white paper – The journey continues’ publication, visit sc.com/sustainabilityhub
2023⁴ 2022 2021
Scopes of GHG emissions (tCOe) (tCOe) (tCOe)
2 2 2
Scope 1 emissions¹ 8,488 2,071 2,902
Scope 2 emissions2 26,246 47,363 82,761
Total Scope 1 and 2 emissions3 34,734 49,434 85,663
Scope 3 emissions:
Category 1: Purchased goods
42.5
and services (other) 286,304 380,732 330,224
Category 1: Purchased goods
MtCOe
2 and services (data centres)5 4,431 7,060 43,132
Category 2: Capital goods 42,707 34,496 47,217
Category 4: Upstream
transportation and
distribution 24,125 20,300 20,949
Category 5: Waste generated
Operational emissions: 0.1% (0.03 MtCOe) in operations6 520 747
2
Scope 1 and 2 Category 6: Business travel
(air travel) 60,279 39,107 3,654
Emissions from the combustion of fuels in owned or controlled
Category 6: Business travel
sources e.g. boilers, generators and vehicles, refrigeration and (miscellaneous other than
air conditioning equipment and the purchase of electricity air travel) 8,918 2,654 4,994
Category 7: Employee
commuting 71,228 61,917
Category 13: Downstream
Generators and Fugitive Purchase of leased assets (real estate) 7,898 8,594
fossil fuel burners emissions electricity Category 15: Investments7,8 41,944,000 49,512,000 45,200,000
Total Scope 3 emissions 42,450,410 50,067,607 45,650,190
Value chain emissions: 1.2% (0.5 MtCOe) Total emissions 42,485,144 50,117,041 45,735,853
2
Scope 3 Categories 1–14
1 As we aim to improve our emissions measurement and reporting year-on-
year, we have included fugitive emissions in our Scope 1 figures for the first
Emissions from our upstream and downstream time in 2023: 5,266 tCOe. Prior year data was not available for fugitive
2
supply and value chain emissions. For more information on the methodology and assumptions used
to calculate GHG emissions, please refer to the Environmental Reporting
Criteria at sc.com/sustainabilityhub.
2 Scope 2 indirect emissions include indirect emissions from purchased
electricity measured under the market-based approach as set out in the
GHG protocol.
Purchased goods Capital Upstream 3 Our Scope 1 and 2 emissions calculations for the most recent reporting year
were independently assured by Global Documentation Ltd., the assurance
and services goods transportation
scope excluded fugitive emissions. Market-based emissions have decreased
and distribution from 2022 to 2023 due to footprint reduction, efficiency gains and the
purchase of additional energy attribution certificates by the Group.
4 The reporting period for GHG emissions is 1 October to 30 September. This
only differs for Category 1: Purchased Goods (other); Category 2: Capital
goods; Category 4: Upstream transportation and distribution; Category 6:
Business travel (miscellaneous other than air travel) and Category 15:
Waste Business Employee Down and
Investments where a period of 1 January to 31 December is used. Emissions
generated in travel commuting upstream data for these categories is also on a one-year lag with emissions reported in
operations leased assets 2023 based on 2022 emissions data.
5 Purchased goods and services (data centres) have been restated from
706tCOe to 7,060tCOe due to an error in converting the unit of emissions.
2 2
Investments: 98.7% (41.94 MtCOe) 6 Waste emissions have been restated from 498tCOe to 747tCOe due to an
2 out of date emissions factor being used in prior yea 2 r. 2
Scope 3 Category 15
7 Category 15: Investments only includes financed emissions and are measured
on a one-year lag, with emissions reported in 2023 being based on 2022
emissions and financial data. Financed emissions are included on page 110.
Emissions from transacting with our clients A facilitated emissions baseline was measured for the first time during the
year. Refer to page 112 for more details.
8 2022 absolute emissions have been restated from 58.5MtCOe to
2
49.5MtCOe. This is due to (i) reduction in shipping absolute emissions as
2
improved data has resulted in individual ship-level fair values being obtained;
(ii) pausing of aviation emissions reporting due to the sale of the Group’s
Financed emissions aviation leasing and lending business; (iii) decreases in Automotive
Manufacturers’ emissions due to changes in the industry emissions reporting
methodology referenced earlier on page 95; (iv) decreases in emissions from
the ‘Others’ sector where improved data has been obtained to calculate
emissions; and (v) the sectoral baselining of emissions reporting for Cement
and Commercial Real Estate as separate high-emitting sectors.
Sustainability review
Our operations
Our approach to managing our environmental footprint Waste
The Group’s Property function is responsible for driving In 2023, we reduced our overall waste by 37 per cent and
efficiency in terms of our space and energy use. In line with the achieved 52 per cent avoidance of landfill (up from
Group’s operational net zero target, we set year-on-year 31 per cent). We were able to achieve this by:
improvement targets for our footprint markets.
• commencing the externally verified True Zero Waste (TZW)
programme and seeing the first results in India and Poland,
Our goals and targets
both achieving TZW Platinum certification;
• We aim to achieve net zero in our operations by 2025. We
have measured and reduced our Scope 1 and 2 GHG • self-certifying 313 buildings across our portfolio being
emissions since 2008 and have been targeting a 90 per cent free of single-use plastic in 2023. We aim to continue
reduction in these emissions since 2018. this programme and promote more sustainable waste
management practices; and
• The Group joined RE100 in 2022, a global corporate
renewable energy initiative bringing together businesses • minimising electronic waste by prolonging the lifespan
that are committed to 100 per cent renewable electricity. of our technology assets through partnerships with
third parties.
• In terms of waste, we aim to achieve 90 per cent avoidance
of landfill by 2030.
Water
We retained a water efficiency metric of less than 0.5 kilolitre
Operational emissions
per square metre in 2023 despite an increase in the proportion
We reduced our Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 30 per cent to
of our employees returning to the office. While water
34,734 tonnes during 2023. Our measured real estate
availability is a growing challenge in many of our markets,
decreased by 7 per cent during this time. 66 per cent of
we did not face any issues sourcing potable water in 2023.
electricity came from renewable sources across our portfolio.
We continue to take a responsible approach to managing
We were able to achieve this by:
water use across the Group.
• continuing to optimise our office and branch network by For detailed environmental performance data see
retiring unused or inefficient space and creating a working page 505 or our ESG data pack at sc.com/esg-data-pack
environment that matches office- and hybrid-working
Read the principles and methodology for measuring our environment
patterns of our workforce;
data at sc.com/environmentcriteria
• having a rolling asset replacement strategy for major Read the independent assurance statement related to Scope 1 and 2
plant and lighting in our offices. The Group installs LED GHG emissions at sc.com/environmentalassurance
and circadian lighting, and energy efficient materials
throughout all new projects;
• launching a large-scale initiative in 2023 to simplify our
technology estate, decommissioning underutilised or
inefficient systems and their servers;
• actively seeking to increase the proportion of our electricity
usage that comes from renewable sources. These can take
the form of power purchase agreements, clean energy
contracts, on-site solar installations and renewable energy
certificates; and
• purchasing and retiring carbon credits for our residual
operational Scope 1 and 2 emissions.
106 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 107
Sustainability
review
Our suppliers
Our approach to managing impacts in our upstream Supplier engagement
value chain Emissions data reporting among our suppliers remains
The Supply Chain Management team within our Group limited. Therefore, we continue to use a hybrid methodology
Chief Financial Officer function provides procurement for emissions calculations using supplier-specific spend and
services internally to drive sustainability, risk mitigation and sector average emissions data. In 2023, we:
commercial advantages in third-party engagements. In line
• continued our outreach to suppliers to collect emissions
with the Group’s sustainability agenda, we set long-term
data directly from them, thereby improving the accuracy
targets to decrease emissions associated with our supply
of our Scope 3 Categories 1, 2, 4 and 6 (miscellaneous other
chain and increase spend with diverse suppliers across
than air travel) emissions calculations and reporting;
our footprint.
• began measuring our spending with suppliers who have set
With 11,563 suppliers, we recognise our contribution to climate
a science-based emissions reduction target or committed
impacts through the goods and services we procure. Severe
to setting one in the future. In 2023, we held working
weather events could result in material disruptions to our
sessions with our suppliers to discuss progress against their
supply chain that may potentially impact our ability to serve
plans and further opportunities for emissions reduction; and
our clients. As such, we are working to gather site locations for
our material suppliers to assess their physical risk exposures, • joined forces with our key logistics partner DHL to co-invest
such that suitable continuity plans can be developed. in sustainable aviation fuel for all consignments globally
through DHL’s GoGreen Plus programme, which is an
Our goals and targets example of how we work with suppliers to support the
• We targeted a 28 per cent reduction in our emissions Group’s emission reductions goals.
associated with air travel from our 2019 baseline of
94,000 tCOe by the end of 2023 and managed to exceed Supplier Charter
2
this target. Through our Supplier Charter, we expect our suppliers to
support and promote environmental protection, and to
• We aim to increase the breadth of our climate-related
comply with local environmental laws and regulations.
engagement with our suppliers. By 2028 we plan to direct
We expect our suppliers to promote the development and
70 per cent of our total spending to suppliers who have
distribution of environmentally-friendly technologies and
set or committed to setting science-based emission
manage environmental concerns in their own supply chains.
reduction targets.
Our Supplier Charter can be viewed at sc.com/suppliercharter
Supply chain-related emissions
• Overall, our emissions associated with the products, For further information on how we engage with suppliers see pages 58
and 59 and for supplier spend data see page 507
services and equipment that we purchase and those
related to business travel – Scope 3 Categories 1, 2, 4 and 6
(miscellaneous other than air travel) – have shown an
estimated 17 per cent year-on-year reduction.
• We have reduced our air travel emissions from our 2019
baseline of 94,000 to 60,279 tCOe. Due to increased travel
2
post COVID-19 we have seen an increase in our emissions
associated with air travel in 2023. Nonetheless, the
Group was able to exceed our target and managed to
reduce these emissions by 36 per cent from our baseline.
To ensure a downward trajectory from our baseline, we
are implementing demand and control measures including
upgrading how we monitor our travel volumes. To help
influence behaviours, we implemented a process to charge
the price of carbon credits to departmental expense
budgets, while also emphasising the need to reduce
emissions and avoid any non-essential business trips.
• We aim to engage and work with technology partners that
are committed to reducing their emissions in line with their
science-based targets.
• Carbon credits were purchased and retired by the Group
for select categories of our value chain emissions. In 2023,
these included emissions associated with air travel and
outsourced on-premise data centres.
Sustainability review
Our clients – Reducing our financed emissions
The majority of our GHG emissions are linked to our lending The Steel sector is hard-to-abate and requires significant
activities, known as financed emissions. Therefore, we have capital to decarbonise. Decarbonisation is reliant on the shift
prioritised our efforts in the highest-emitting and most from blast to electric arc furnaces and many of our emerging
carbon-intensive sectors of our portfolio, and where working markets are at early stages of their transition journeys. While
with our clients can have the greatest impact. the emissions intensity of our steel book remained relatively
unchanged year-on-year, we are actively working with our
A brief summary of the movements in the eleven high-
clients in this sector to support their transition.
emitting sectors is as follows:
Our Thermal Coal Mining exposure is decreasing in line
Aluminium sector emissions have trended down as the
with our coal revenue thresholds as detailed in our Position
power supply into the smelters has become less carbon-
Statements and related contractual commitments.
intensive and the Group has funded clients with less emission
No new Thermal Coal Mining use of proceeds loans have
intensive operations.
been provided in line with our Position Statements.
The physical intensity of the Automotive Manufacturers
The Group completed the sale of its global Aviation finance
sector decreased slightly due to the Group having a larger
leasing business and the majority of its aviation lending book
exposure to zero tailpipe Electric Vehicle manufacturing
in August 2023. Noting the distortive effects that the sale of
within the Group’s Automotive Manufacturers portfolio.
this business would create in our emissions profile, the progress
The physical intensity of the Cement sector has remained against this target has been paused for year–end 2023.
relatively consistent year-on-year. This will be a hard-to-abate This will be re-assessed based on the size and materiality
sector in the medium-term until cleaner energy sources are of the remaining portfolio in 2024.
utilised, especially in emerging markets. For further information, please refer to the Group’s ‘Net zero
methodological white paper – The journey continues’ via
In the Commercial Real Estate portfolio, building intensities
sc.com/sustainabilityhub
have fallen due to investment in regions with lower emissions
power supplies and certain markets’ power suppliers
decarbonising. We continue to work with technology
providers on solutions for individual building emissions
measurement and management.
Absolute Oil and Gas emissions remained relatively
stable year-on-year and are significantly lower versus the
baseline year. We continued to pursue overall portfolio
decarbonisation, pivoting exposure to counterparties and
technologies that are less carbon-intensive.
The Power sector’s intensity decreased as some of our
contractual obligations to coal-fired power plants have
ended. We also actively pursued lower emissions technologies
including new gas power plants, and expanded our
renewables financing.
The emissions intensity of the Residential Mortgages sector
has remained consistent year-on-year and will decrease over
time in line with electricity grid decarbonisation.
The Shipping sector’s alignment delta has worsened due
to the impact from the container sector, which enjoyed very
strong profits in 2022, encouraging owners to sail faster,
leading to higher emissions. Looking ahead, tightening
environmental regulations and mechanisms from both
the IMO and EU are expected to lead to better alignment
between shipowners’ behaviours and the Group’s
2030 targets.
108 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 109
Sustainability
review
Sectors included in financed emissions calculations
Thermal Included in analysis
Agriculture
Coal Mining 2021
2022
Commercial
Steel 2023
Real Estate
2024
Residential
Mortgages Oil and Gas
2030 financed
emissions targets
Aluminium Power
Automotive
Cement
Manufacturers
Aviation Shipping
Setting science-based targets
The Group set interim 2030 financed emissions targets for In 2023, the Group:
11 of the 12 high-emitting sectors with Agriculture being the
• Strengthened our Oil and Gas emissions metric from
12th planned for 2024.
a revenue-based intensity to an absolute financed
We follow the Net-Zero Banking Alliance (NZBA) guidance emissions target and trajectory. This places an emissions
on sectors for target-setting, further expanding the budget on the sector and requires a reduction of 29 per
Transport sector into Automotive Manufacturers, Aviation cent by 2030 when calculated from a 2020 baseline,
and Shipping. aligned with the IEA’s NZE trajectory. Our approach
ensures we maintain a direct link to absolute GHG
We set four sectoral targets and updated three targets in
emissions in the Oil and Gas sector and allows us to
2023. All targets have been informed by what the Group
directly assess our progress with the IEA NZE scenario
considers pre-eminent scientific forward-looking scenario
that we have set our target against. By moving away
providers. This includes the International Energy Agency
from a revenue-based intensity we remove an element of
(IEA) for energy sectors, the Mission Possible Partnership
financial volatility and complexity from our calculations
(MPP) for metals, International Maritime Organization
that could restrict transparency and accountability in
(IMO) for shipping and Carbon Risk Real Estate Monitor
measuring and disclosing our financed GHG emissions.
(CRREM) for the residential real estate sector.
Oil and Gas is the second sector for which the Group set
For our Scope 3 Financed Emissions, we set science-based an absolute financed emission target, in addition to our
targets accounting for differing states of transition target for Thermal Coal Mining.
readiness across our markets. Due to our footprint – with
• Updated our Power and Steel sector targets from a
many emerging markets reliant on carbon-intensive
revenue-based intensity metric to a production-based
industries – our financed emissions may increase before
intensity metric (i.e., emission intensity per unit of
they decrease. The upper end of our 2030 target may
production). The progression from an economic-based
represent low-overshoot scenarios. However, our approach
intensity to a production/physical-based intensity reduces
is to remain aligned to a science-based 1.5 degrees Celsius
the financial volatility in the calculation and improves the
scientific pathway by 2050. Given our science-based
connection to clients’ actual GHG emissions by linking
approach, we will strive to update our targets both as the
directly to units of production, or a physical activity.
scientific community updates their reference scenarios and
as data availability improves. We published the second edition of the Group’s ‘Net zero
methodological white paper – The journey continues’, which
sets out the methodology, assumptions and scientific
pathways for each high-emitting sector and is available
via sc.com/sustainabilityhub.
Sustainability review
Detailed progress against our sectoral financed emissions targets12,13,16
20221 20211
2022 Absolute Absolute % change
Exposure in emissions Physical emissions9 Physical Baseline cumulative Year
Sector scope ($bn) Target (MtCOe) intensity (MtCOe) intensity year to baseline target set
2 2
CCIB
Aluminium2,4 0.2 6.1 t COe/ 0.3 4.59^ tCOe/ 0.6 5.62^ 2021 -18% 2023
2 2
tonne tonne tCOe/ tonne
2
Aluminium Aluminium Aluminium
(–)
Automotive 2.8 66–100 2.8 165^ 3.3 178^ 2021 -7% 2022
Manufacturers3 gCO/Vkm gCO/Vkm gCO/Vkm
2 2 2
(44-63%)
Cement4 0.9 0.52 tCO/ 3.5 0.66^ 2.4 0.67^ 2021 -1% 2023
2
tonne Cement tCO/tonne tCO/tonne
2 2
(22%) Cement Cement
Commercial 4.8 19–39 kgCOe/ 0.1 62^ 0.1 73^ 2021 -15% 2023
2
Real Estate4 Sq.m kgCOe/Sq.m kgCOe/Sq.m
2 2
(47-74%)
Oil and Gas5, 14 6.8 9.3 MtCOe 10.3^ nm11 10.2^ nm11 2020 -21% 2023
2
(29%)
Others2,6 59.3 nm10 12.6 nm10 19.6 nm10 2021
Power5 5.3 0.17–0.28 5.9 0.47^ 6.6 0.52^ 2021 -10% 2023
tCO/MWh tCO/MWh tCO/MWh
2 2 2
(46-67%)
Shipping7 4.1 0% delta 2.8 +6.4%^ delta 2.5 +2.6%^ delta 2021 2022
0% delta +11.8%^ delta +7.3%^ delta +4.5%
0% delta +16% ^ delta +10% ^ delta
Steel5 1.3 1.4–1.6 tCO/ 2.0 1.97^ 1.9 2.06^ 2021 -4% 2023
2
tonne Steel tCO/ tCO/tonne
2 2
(22-32%) tonne Steel Steel
Thermal Coal Mining15 0.04 0.5 MtCOe 1.6^ nm11 2.3^ nm11 2020 -52% 2021
2
(85%)
85.5 41.9 49.5
CPBB
Residential 74.3 29–32 0.04 37.7^ 0.04 37.6^ 2021 0% 2023
Mortgages4,8 kgCOe/Sq.m kgCOe/Sq.m kgCOe/Sq.m
2 2 2
(15-23%)
74.3 0.04 0.04
Total CCIB and CPBB 159.8 41.9 49.59
1 Due to third-party data sets that feed into our calculations, the Group’s 8 The Group has set its Residential Mortgage target range at the most ambitious
reported financed emissions figures have a one-year lag. The Group reports end of the public commitments made by governments and power companies
on 2022 and 2021 data in this 2023 Annual Report. in the countries where we operate and has been benchmarked to the CRREM
2 During the year a sector-specific deep dive was performed on Aluminium as scientific pathway.
the majority of the ‘Other Metals and Mining’ sector reported in the prior year 9 2021 Absolute emissions have been restated from 58.5MtCOe to 49.5MtCOe.
2 2
was lending to Aluminium clients. Due to this the sector has been This is due to: (i) reduction in shipping absolute emissions as improved data
disaggregated from the ‘Other Metals and Mining’ sector we reported in the has resulted in individual ship-level fair values being obtained; (ii) pausing of
prior year. The remainder of the ‘Other Metals and Mining’ sector has been aviation emissions reporting due to the sale of the Group’s aviation leasing and
included in the ‘Others’ category. lending business; (iii) decreases in Automotive Manufacturers’ emissions due to
3 Automotive Manufacturers has been re-baselined during the year. This was changes in the industry emissions reporting methodology referenced earlier;
due to an update in methodology from the industry’s progress in adopting a (iv) decreases in emissions from the ‘Others’ sector where improved data
test procedure that better reflects driving conditions in the real world. has been obtained to calculate emissions; and (v) the sectoral baselining of
4 Cement, Commercial Real Estate, Residential Mortgages and Aluminium are emissions reporting for the Cement and Commercial Real Estate as separate
new sectors reported for the first time this reporting cycle. Two reporting cycles high-emitting sectors.
have been calculated and disclosed including a baseline and current year 10 Value is not required as the Group has not set a target for the ‘Others’ sector.
progression value. 11 Value is not required as the Group has set an absolute emissions target and
5 During the year the Group has re-baselined the Oil and Gas sector from a therefore the production intensity of the portfolio has not been measured.
revenue intensity to an absolute emissions metric, additionally the absolute 12 Values noted with a caret symbol (^) are subject to independent limited
baseline was revised from 13.7 to 13.1 due to a methodology refinement. Power assurance by EY, report available at sc.com/sustainabilityhub.
and Steel have been re-baselined from a revenue intensity to a production 13 Emissions are calculated in CO except where other GHGs are material which
intensity metric. are noted as COe (this include 2 s Oil and Gas, Coal, Aluminium, CRE, Shipping
2
6 Others includes miscellaneous non-specific high-emitting sectors not included and Residential Mortgages).
in a sector deep dive. 14 Of the cumulative movement of -21%, there was a 1% increase in emissions
7 Following revisions to the IMO decarbonisation strategy, Poseidon Principles between 2021 and 2022.
have replaced the initial TtW (tank to wake) delta with two additional GHG 15 Of the cumulative movement of -52%, there was a 30% decrease in emissions
strategy scenarios. The Group has disclosed the alignment deltas for the between 2021 and 2022.
IMO existing strategy, IMO revised minimum and the IMO striving scenarios 16 For further information, please refer to our ‘Net zero methodological white
above in that order. The Group’s baseline has been set as the IMO revised paper – The journey continues’ publication via sc.com/sustainabilityhub.
minimum strategy.
110 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 111
Sustainability
review
Our approach to measuring financed emissions
2022 2021 In scope
Emissions Scope of PCAF PCAF exposure
Sector approach Scenario Value chain emissions4 score score coverage
CCIB3
Aluminium
Production
MPP STS Aluminium producers 1, 2 2.4 2.2 100%
intensity
Automotive
1,2 2.2¹ 2.4¹
Manufacturers Physical IEA APS and NZE Automotive manufacturers 100%
intensity
3 52 52
Cement Production Clinker and
IEA NZE 1, 2 2.3 2.9 100%
intensity cement manufacturing
Commercial
Real Estate Physical
IEA APS and NZE Real estate leasing 1, 2 4 4 99%
intensity
Oil and Gas 1,2 3.21 3.21
Absolute Upstream, midstream and
IEA NZE 97%
emissions downstream 3 3.22 3.52
Others
Absolute
IEA NZE Other sectors 1,2 3.3 3.3 86%
emissions
Power
Production Electricity Generation &
IEA APS and NZE 1, 2 3.3 3.2 100%
intensity Distribution
Shipping
Physical IMO existing, IMO Shipping lessors and
1, 3 1 1 99%
intensity rev. min. IMO striving companies
Steel
Production
MPP TM Steel producers 1, 2 3.8 3.7 98%
intensity
Thermal Coal Mining 1,2 3.71 3.81
Absolute
IEA NZE Thermal coal 100%
emissions 3 32 32
CPBB
Residential
Mortgages Physical
CRREM Residential households 1, 2 4.4 4.4 100%
intensity
Sector emissions for material Scope 3 high-emitting sectors
2022 2021
Sector Scope 1,2 Scope 3 Scope 1,2 Scope 3
Automotive Manufacturers 0.1 2.7 0.1 3.2
Oil and Gas 1.7 8.6 1.3 8.9
Thermal Coal Mining 0.1 1.5 0.1 2.2
1 PCAF score for Scope 1 and 2 emissions.
2 PCAF score for Scope 3 emissions.
3 In scope coverage remained consistent from 2021 to 2022 improving from 87% to 90% on CCIB financing.
4 For further information, please refer to our ‘Net zero methodological white paper – The journey continues’ publication via sc.com/sustainabilityhub.
Sustainability review
Facilitated emissions
During 2022, Standard Chartered joined the Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF) to support the
development of a methodology to measure facilitated emissions associated with the arranging of capital markets issuances.
PCAF recognises that capital market facilitation is essential for the climate transition. Therefore, this year we are expanding our
reporting to cover facilitated emissions associated with our debt capital markets services. In line with PCAF recommendations,
we are reporting our facilitated emissions separately from financed emissions due to the inherent difference in the underlying
nature of these activities. The Group is reporting its baseline facilitated emissions under the 33% weighting factor in line with
PCAF guidance, noting that facilitated emissions relate to the provision of a service and not financing. PCAF recognises that
facilitated emissions are distinct from financed emissions given that capital market transactions are rarely held on a financial
institution’s balance sheet and typically a financial institution’s association with the transaction is temporary. However, the
Group is also disclosing facilitated emissions using a 100% weighting factor to reflect the maximum potential GHG emissions
that theoretically could be associated with capital market activities.
2021
33% 100%
weighting factor4 weighting factor4
Scope of emissions1,2 MtCOe MtCOe PCAF Score Emissions in scope5
2 2
Scope 1 and 2 1.5 4.5 3.1 Scope 1 and 2 emissions are covered for all sectors
Scope 3 emissions are included for Oil and Gas, Thermal Coal
Scope 3 1.2 3.7 5.0 Mining and Automotive Manufacturing
Total3 2.7^ 8.2^
1 Our 2021 emissions are calculated using 2021 debt capital markets data from Dealogic and 2021 emissions data from S&P Trucost.
2 Nearly 90% of emissions are based on reported emissions data from S&P Trucost. For the remaining we utilise proxy calculations based on economic activities.
3 Values noted with a caret symbol (^) are subject to independent limited assurance by EY, report available at sc.com/sustainabilityhub.
4 Following the release of the final Facilitated Emissions guidance by PCAF in December 2023 the Group has measured its Facilitated Emissions baseline for 2021.
2022 and 2023 Facilitated Emissions will be published in the 2024 Annual Report.
5 For further information, please refer to our ‘Net zero methodological white paper – The journey continues’ publication via sc.com/sustainabilityhub
112 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 113
Sustainability
review
Aluminium Automotive Manufacturers
Cumulative
Balance in 2030 performance
scope ($bn) interim target versus baseline
6.1tCOe/tonne
2
0.2 Aluminium (Maintain at -18%
1.5°C scientific pathway)
Sector background
The production of aluminium is emissions-intensive and is
responsible for roughly 2%1 of global COe emissions per
2
year. The sector is heavily reliant on electricity from the
local grid with over 60% of the sector’s COe emissions
2
occurring from the electricity consumed during smelting.
Baseline target and portfolio progress 2021 to 20302
9
8
7
6 5.62 6.1
5
4.59
4
3
2
Baseline 1 Portfolio progress
MPP STS
0
2021
)muinimulA
ennoT/eOCt(
ytisnetni
snoissimE
2
Cumulative
Balance in 2030 performance
scope ($bn) interim target versus baseline
66–100g CO/V.km
2.8 2 -7%
(44–63% reduction)
Sector background
The automotive industry is a significant contributor to
climate change through annual exhaust emissions,
accounting for 8%1 of global CO emissions. Transitioning
2
from internal combustion engines (ICE) to electric
vehicles (EVs) is crucial to reach net-zero by 2050 through
decreasing the demand of Oil and Gas products.
Baseline target and portfolio progress 2021 to 20302
255
240
225
210
195
178 180 165
150 165
135
120
105 100
90
75
60 Baseline 66
45 Portfolio progress 30 IEA APS
IEA NZE
15
22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 2030 Year 2021
Progress in the year
During the year, the Group measured the Aluminium
portfolio baseline using a production intensity (tCOe/
2
tonne Aluminium). A baseline of 5.62tCOe/tonne
2
Aluminium has been measured with 2021 as the baseline
year. This baseline is below the Mission Possible Partnership
Aluminium Sector Transition Strategy (MPP STS) pathway
2030 target of 6.1tCOe/tonne Aluminium, as the Group’s
2
current exposure is to clients with lower emissions-intensive
energy sources.
Nonetheless, we have issued facilities which have not yet
been drawn to counterparties with less efficient smelters
and therefore the Group’s target is to maintain below the
MPP STS 1.5°C pathway. Note that our MPP STS pathway
has been adjusted downwards to include recycled
aluminium production.
When calculating our emissions, we measure the
aluminium producer’s Scope 1 and 2 emissions. This is in
line with the ‘Fixed System Boundary’ set out by the SAFF
(Sustainable Aluminium Finance Framework).
During the year the physical intensity of the portfolio
decreased by 18% from 5.62tCOe/tonne Aluminium to
2
4.59tCOe/tonne Aluminium. This was due to year-on-year
2
decreases in exposure to some of the Group’s higher-
intensity primary aluminium producing clients.
)mkv
/ OCg(
ytisnetni
snoissimE
2
-44% to -63%
22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 2030 Year
Progress in the year
During the year the Group re-baselined the emissions
intensity reported for the 2021 baseline year from
160gCO/V.km to 178gCO/V.km. This was due to the
2 2
industry’s progress in adopting a test procedure that better
reflects driving conditions in the real world. This change in
assumption was completed by the Transition Pathway
Initiative (TPI) through a Worldwide Harmonised Light
Duty Driving Test Procedure, which has been globally
adopted as the standard against which all global
manufacturers are evaluated.
The Group’s target aligns with two scenarios of the IEA,
the IEA NZE and the IEA APS.
When measuring the sector emissions, the boundary
covers Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) of
newly manufactured light duty vehicles. The Group
includes Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions (excluding well-to-tank
emissions) in our financed emissions calculation. For Scope
3 we include the lifetime tailpipe emissions of the vehicles
produced during the reporting cycle and a factor derived
from supply chain emissions of the OEM.
The Group’s sector intensity for 2022 is 165gCO/V.km, a 7%
2
decrease from 178gCO/V.km. This emission decrease is
2
due to a larger exposure to zero tailpipe EV manufacturing
within the Group’s Automotive Manufacturers portfolio.
On track Transition alignment required
1 Emissions contribution per the IEA’s World Energy Outlook 2023.
2 Graphs reflect 2022 balance sheet values reported during 2023.
Sustainability review
Cement Commercial Real Estate
Cumulative
Balance in 2030 performance
scope ($bn) interim target versus baseline
0.52 tCO/tonne Cement
0.9 2 -1%
(22% reduction)
Sector background
Cement contributes to approximately 7%1 of total GHG
emissions on a global scale. The primary source of carbon
dioxide emitted is due to the chemical reaction that takes
place between limestone and heat throughout the
manufacturing procedure.
By increasing energy efficiency and utilising alternative
fuels in the limestone heating process, the industry can
reduce its carbon emissions.
Baseline target and portfolio progress 2021 to 20302
0.75
0.70 0.67
0.65 0.66
0.60
0.55
0.50 0.52
0.45
0.40
0.35 Baseline
Portfolio progress
IEA NZE
0.30
2021
114 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
)tcudorp
suoititnemeC
ennoT
/
2OCt(
ytisnetni
snoissimE
Cumulative
Balance in performance
scope ($bn) interim target versus baseline
19–39 kgCO/Sq.m
4.8 2 -15%
(47–74% reduction)
Sector background
The building sector currently contributes 8%1 of the global
energy-related emissions in 2022 per the IEA WEO 2023.
Key drivers of the emissions in the portfolio include the
size and type of the building as well as the energy source
powering the building.
Insulation and ventilation, building energy management,
electrification and cleaner electricity will be key drivers of
decarbonisation in the portfolio.
Baseline target and portfolio progress 2021 to 20302
80
75 73
70
65
60 62
55
50
-22% 45
40
35 39
30
25
20
15 Baseline 19
10 Portfolio progress
5 IEA APS
IEA NZE
0
22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 2030 Year 2021
Progress in the year
During the year the Group measured its 2021 balance sheet
baseline and current year emissions progress in addition to
setting a target. Our target range has been set using the
IEA NZE pathway.
When calculating our portfolio emissions, the midstream
processes are measured, including heating of limestone
and combustion of the fuels used in the cement kiln and
other plant processes.
In setting our emissions baseline and target, we have
measured our cement sector portfolio emissions with a
production-based emissions intensity metric of tonnes CO
2
per tonne of cementitious material (tCO/tonne Cement).
2
Our selection of a production-based emissions intensity
metric for the cement industry is motivated by the need to
balance the rising demand for cementitious materials in
emerging economies with the pressing requirement to
decarbonise the cementitious material production process.
The portfolio emissions have remained static during the
year with new clients having carbon intensities that are
consistent with our portfolio. We have started to work
with cement counterparties on their transition plans and
commitments where their decarbonisation ambition does
not match our own.
)aera
roofl
mqs/2OCgk(
ytisnetni
snoissimE
-47% to -74%
22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 2030 Year
Progress in the year
During the year the Group measured our Commercial Real
Estate (CRE) portfolio’s 2021 balance sheet baseline and
2022 progress of GHG emissions. The Group has also set a
target to reduce emissions in the portfolio by 47% to 74% by
2030 using the IEA APS and NZE scenarios to set the target.
The emissions measured cover CRE assets being leased to
earn rental returns and include the Scope 1 and 2 emissions
from these buildings. A physical intensity of kgCOe/m² is
2
the metric used to measure the portfolio’s progress to net
zero. This is calculated by summing the portfolio’s Scope 1
and 2 emissions and dividing this by the floor area of
the portfolio.
Our portfolio intensity moved from 73kgCOe/Sq.m to
2
62kgCOe/Sq.m, a reduction of 15% year-on-year. This was
2
primarily due to our CRE regions’ power supplies starting
to decarbonise and macroeconomic changes resulting
in geographical shifting of the portfolio from the east to
the west, and less carbon-intensive energy supplies.
We continue to work with technology providers on
solutions for individual building carbon emissions
measurement and management.
On track Transition alignment required
1 Emissions contribution per the IEA’s World Energy Outlook 2023.
2 Graphs reflect 2022 balance sheet values reported during 2023.
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 115
Sustainability
review
Oil and Gas Power
Cumulative
Balance in 2030 performance
scope ($bn) interim target versus baseline
9.3 MtCOe
6.8 2 -21%
(29% reduction)
Sector background
The Oil and Gas industry’s production emissions and
consumption emissions account for approximately 15%1
and 36%2 of global energy-related emissions respectively.
As such, the decarbonisation of the Oil and Gas sector is
crucial for achieving global net zero carbon emissions.
The transition requires the development of new technologies
such as abating emissions at source through deployment of
carbon capture and (underground) storage technologies,
and the evolution of Oil and Gas companies to energy
companies through investment in renewables.
Baseline target and portfolio progress 2020 to 20303
16
14 13.1
12
10.3
10
10.2
9.3
8
6
4
2 Baseline
Portfolio progress
IEA NZE
0
2020
)eOCtM(
snoissimE
decnaniF
etulosbA
2
Cumulative
Balance in 2030 performance
scope ($bn) interim target versus baseline
0.17–0.28 tCO/MWh
5.3 2 -10%
(46–67% reduction)
Sector background
Power generation is a material source of CO emissions
2
globally, through the Scope 1 burning of fossil fuels. It is also
a leading sector in the transition to net zero emissions
through the rapid increase of renewables such as solar
and wind.
Decarbonising the portfolio will require scaling renewable
lending or funding of lower-emission plants fuelled by
cleaner energy sources.
Baseline target and portfolio progress 2021 to 20303
0.55 0.52
0.50
0.45 0.47
0.40
0.35
-29%
0.30
0.28
0.25
0.20
0.15 Baseline 0.17
Portfolio progress 0.10 IEA APS
IEA NZE
0.05
2021
21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 2030 Year
Progress in the year
During the year, the Group replaced its existing revenue
intensity target with an absolute Oil and Gas target,
which now requires a 29% reduction in absolute financed
emissions by 2030 against our 2020 balance sheet
baseline. This effectively sets a carbon budget for the Oil
and Gas team which can only be achieved through Oil and
Gas companies decarbonising or via the Group’s exposure
to this sector decreasing.
The emissions measured in our reporting include upstream
(exploration, extraction and production), midstream
(transportation and storage) and downstream (refinement
and gas station operation) activities. An absolute emissions
metric is used to manage the portfolio, recognising the
importance of phasing out oil and gas through the
transition but also recognising the importance of gas
in the transition period.
Oil and Gas absolute emissions have remained relatively
consistent year-on-year from 10.2MtCOe as reported on
2
the 2021 balance sheet to 10.3MtCOe in 2022. This has
2
been a result of greater exposure in scope offset by a
decrease of production intensity of certain clients, in line
with our expectations of reductions.
)hWM/OCt(
ytisnetni
snoissimE
2
-46% to -67%
22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 2030 Year
Progress in the year
During the year the Group has measured its 2021 balance
sheet baseline emission intensity and its 2022 progress
towards the 2030 target. The Group’s target range was
set using an IEA APS and NZE reference scenario range,
recognising the importance of decarbonising the power
sector but also reflecting our positioning as an emerging
markets bank and our commitment to a just energy
transition.
In setting our emissions baseline and target, we have
measured our Power portfolio emissions with an intensity
metric (tCO/MWh). We primarily measure the Scope 1
2
emissions associated with the generation of power through
combustion of fossil fuels or biomass when calculating
our emissions.
From 2021 to 2022 the portfolios emissions intensity
moved from 0.52tCO/MWh to 0.47tCO/MWh, a
2 2
reduction of 10%. This was caused by a shift in the
portfolio mix with more lending to lower-emitting gas
generation and renewables.
On track Transition alignment required
1 IEA: The Oil and Gas Industry in Net Zero Transition.
2 Emissions contribution per the IEA’s World Energy Outlook 2023.
3 Graphs reflect 2022 balance sheet values reported during 2023.
Sustainability review
Shipping Steel
Cumulative
Balance in 2030 performance
scope ($bn) interim target versus baseline
4.1 0% delta +4.5%
Sector background
International shipping plays an essential role in the
facilitation of world trade as the most cost-effective and
energy-efficient mode of cargo transport. It contributed
2%1 of global emissions per the IEA WEO 2023.
With oil-based fuels historically meeting over 99% of
shipping energy needs, transition to low emission fuels
will be key in decarbonising the sector. The Group is a
signatory of the Poseidon Principles, which determines
the decarbonisation principles to follow when providing
shipping finance.
Baseline target and portfolio progress 2021 to 20302
30%
25%
20%
11.8%
15%
5% 7.3%
0%
-5%
-10%
-20% SCB 2021 baseline
Portfolio progress
IMO revised minimum alignment delta
-25%
2021
116 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
)%
yrotcejart
OMI
tsniaga(
atled
tnemngilA
Cumulative
Balance in 2030 performance
scope ($bn) interim target versus baseline
1.4–1.6 tCO/tonne Steel
1.3 2 -4%
(22–32% reduction)
Sector background
The steel industry is the largest source of industrial CO
2
emissions and accounts for roughly 7%1 of global CO
2
emissions. This is largely due to the sector’s reliance on
metallurgical coal as the primary fuel source.
Technological solutions to decarbonise this sector will
include scrap-based electric arc furnaces, natural gas or
hydrogen-based direct reduction plants with electric arc
furnaces (all with clean power supplies) and the potential
for CCUS.
Baseline target and portfolio progress 2021 to 20302
2.15
2.10 2.06
2.05
2.00
1.95 1.97
1.90
1.85
-11.8% 1.80
1.75
1.70
1.65
1.60 1.6
1.55
1.50
1.45 Baseline
1.40 Portfolio progress 1.4
MPP TM regional
1.35 MPP TM
22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 2030 Year 1.30
2021
Progress in the year
In 2022, the Group set a target to achieve a 0% alignment
delta for its shipping portfolio by 2030. This alignment delta
is measured using the Poseidon Principles framework based
on a 50% CO reduction pathway by 2050 using 2008 as a
2
baseline. A positive alignment score means that the portfolio
is misaligned (above the decarbonisation trajectory),
whereas a negative or zero score means that the portfolio is
aligned. In 2023, Poseidon Principles added two additional
pathways: the revised minimum (the Group’s base case) and
striving trajectory. These new scenarios are more stringent
and are net zero by 2050.
During the year, the Group’s revised minimum alignment
delta increased from 7.3% to 11.8%, placing the Group in the
top quarter on an efficiency basis of Poseidon Principle
signatories, which collectively represents 70% of global
shipping finance exposure. This increase of 4.5% in
alignment delta is primarily due to new vessels financed,
which were delivered late in the year and therefore were
very inefficient, as they travelled very short distances in the
start-up phase. These vessels are expected to improve their
efficiency once annualised. Secondly, container shipping
operators saw strong demand and profitability in 2022,
which encouraged faster and more fuel-inefficient journeys.
Next year, the Group will further observe the impact of the
Carbon Intensity Indicator measurement of ships’ efficiency
which has come into effect in 2023, and incentivises
shipowners to optimise their emissions impact.
)leets
edurc
ennot
/
OCt(
ytisnetni
snoissimE
2
-22% to -32%
22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 2030 Year
Progress in the year
During the year the Group updated its original revenue-
based intensity baseline to a production-based intensity
metric with a baseline year of 2021. We also measured our
progress during the year.
We have set a target of 1.4–1.6tCO/tonne Steel by 2030
2
using a production intensity metric, recognising the
urgent need to decarbonise the steel production process,
while balancing the growing demand of steel in
emerging economies.
When calculating our emissions, we measure the
steelmaker’s Scope 1 and 2 emissions. This is in line with
the ‘Fixed System Boundary’ as set out by the Sustainable
Steel Principles (SSP).
From 2021 to 2022 the physical intensity of the portfolio
moved from 2.06tCO/tonne Steel to 1.97tCO/tonne Steel,
2 2
a decrease of 4%. This was due to a year-on-year decrease
to the Group’s higher-emitting clients and improvements in
the energy performance of some clients in Asia.
On track Transition alignment required
1 Emissions contribution per the IEA’s World Energy Outlook 2023.
2 Graphs reflect 2022 balance sheet values reported during 2023.
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 117
Sustainability
review
Residential Mortgages Thermal Coal Mining
Cumulative
Balance in 2030 performance
scope ($bn) interim target versus baseline
0.5 MtCOe
0.04 2 -52%
(85% reduction)
Sector background
The coal sector is the largest energy source for electricity
generation globally as well as being the largest single
source of carbon emissions, contributing 42%1 of total COe
2
missions when combusted.
Although global emissions related to coal have increased
in 2022 due to the ongoing energy crisis, coal is expected,
and is required to be phased out over the transition
towards net zero.
Baseline target and portfolio progress 2020 to 20302
3.5 3.3
3.0
2.5
2.3
2.0
1.5 1.6
1.0
0.5 Baseline
0.5
Portfolio progress
IEA NZE
0
2020 21
)eOCM(
snoissimE
decnaniF
etulosbA
2
Cumulative
Balance in 2030 performance
scope ($bn) interim target versus baseline
29–32 kgCOe/Sq.m
74.3 2 0%
(15–23% reduction)
Sector background
The key drivers of the emissions in the residential mortgages
portfolio include the size and energy efficiency, and the
energy source powering the residential floor area.
Insulation and ventilation, building energy management,
electrification and cleaner electricity will be key drivers of
decarbonisation in the portfolio.
Baseline target and portfolio progress 2021 to 20302
40 37.7
37.6 35
32
30
29
25
20
15 -85%
10
Baseline
5 2030 target (lower bound)
2030 target (upper bound)
CRREM
0
2021
22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 2030 Year
Progress in the year
The Group has set a target of reducing our absolute
baseline emissions by 85% by 2030. This target, in addition
to our Position Statements, which places ever increasing
limits on financial services the Group can provide to
coal-reliant clients, recognises there is limited opportunity
to reduce carbon intensities associated with the Coal
sector and sets a decreasing carbon budget on this sector.
During the year we calculated our progress up to 2022
towards our absolute target against our 2020 balance
sheet baseline. This includes thermal coal upstream
(exploration and extraction), midstream (transportation)
and downstream (refinement) when measuring our
absolute emissions.
The absolute emissions of the portfolio from 2021 to 2022
decreased from 2.3MtCOe to 1.6MtCOe a decrease of
2 2
30%. This was due to the portfolio being run down subject
to contractual commitments with no new use of proceeds
financing having been provided.
)aera
roofl
mqs/OCgk(
snoissimE
decnaniF
etulosbA
2
-15% -23%
22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 2030 Year
Progress in the year
During the year the Group measured its 2021 balance sheet
baseline and 2022 progress of GHG emissions from the four
main residential mortgage portfolios, namely Hong Kong,
South Korea, Singapore and Taiwan, accounting for
approximately 89% of the Group’s exposure. Emissions
measured in our baseline and annual progress include
Scope 1 and 2 emissions from the residential properties the
Group lends against. A physical intensity of kgCOe/Sq.m
2
is the metric used to measure the portfolio’s progress.
Standard Chartered, as a UK headquartered Group with a
large footprint in Asia, is one of the first banks to set a target
on its mortgage portfolio across multiple countries. While we
have set a single group-level target, the very nature of the
residential real estate market means all decarbonisation
actions will take place at the local level. Achieving our target
is dependent on actions by local governments and power
companies decarbonising power generation. The target
range has been set at the more ambitious end of the public
commitments made by governments and power companies
in the countries where the Group operates. These targets
have been benchmarked to, and currently sit above, the
global CRREM pathway to 2030. We will review this over
time based on changes to country commitments and
ambition. The Group has set a target of 29–32kgCOe/Sq.m
2
being a 15% to 23% reduction by 2030 of the baseline
portfolio intensity of 37.6kgCOe/Sq.m. The portfolio intensity
2
remained consistent and will decrease over time through
the decarbonisation of the national grids in our markets.
On track Transition alignment required
1 Emissions contribution per the IEA’s World Energy Outlook 2023.
2 Graphs reflect 2022 balance sheet values reported during 2023.
Sustainability review
Pillar 4: Leverage our innovation hubs
Announced in 2023, the four thematic innovation hubs – core range of traditional products and services. By being
Adaptation Finance, Blended Finance1, Carbon Markets deliberate in demonstrating leadership to advance the
and Nature Positive Solutions – focus on emerging themes ecosystem in these emerging thematic areas, the Group
of sustainability aligned to areas where the Group has will be well positioned to take advantage of the significant
a core competency and are particularly suited to our and differentiated revenue potential that will result from
clients in our footprint markets. Each hub is transversal, maturation of these thematic areas in the future.
run by senior leaders in the CSO organisation, and aims
For further information on collaborative initiatives the Group
to identify opportunities for future returns outside of our participates in, refer to page 96
1. Adaptation Finance In 2023: “The Adaptation Hub has
The world is experiencing impacts from changes • Closed the Group’s first Adaptation drawn on our diverse
in average temperature, seasonal shifting, an Finance transaction; an adaptation experience from across the
increasing frequency and intensity of extreme letter of credit with a parametric Group. Our first Adaptation
weather events, and slow onset events. insurance provider for the renewable Finance deal provided a test
A significant proportion of our Group’s footprint energy sector. case to scaling our efforts
markets are coastal, which means that adaptation • Reviewed our Group’s portfolio to internally and demonstrate
represents both a risk and an opportunity for us and
analyse data on past transactions how private sector finance can
our clients.
related to adaptation. be deployed into Adaptation.
There is an urgent global need to unlock and scale • Used data collected from our Climate The new Guide for Adaptation
public and private climate adaptation finance
Risk Assessments to design an and Resilience Finance (GARF)
to build shared societal resilience. This need is
‘adaptation readiness’ test at the is centred around bankable
applicable to all nations but is particularly acute
in emerging and developing economies. client level. opportunities and we hope it
• Collaborated externally with KPMG and will unlock significant private
Acknowledging our geographical footprint and the
multiplier effect of investment in adaptation – where the United Nations Office for Disaster sector capital flow towards
every dollar spent on adaptation this decade could Risk Reduction (UNDRR) to develop the adaptation in emerging
generate up to $12 of economic benefit (sc.com/ market’s first Guide to Adaptation and markets.”
adaptation-economy) – it is our ambition to act Resilience Finance (GARF), which was
Alex Kennedy
decisively and mobilise others on adaptation. announced at COP28 and published in
Head of Sustainable Finance
early 2024.
Solutions
2. Blended Finance1 In 2023: “Where money goes today
The Independent High-Level Expert Group on • Worked through international fora and shapes tomorrow’s world’ was
Climate Finance estimate that by 2030 there will be a industry groups (e.g., GFANZ) to leverage the theory of change for the
$2.5–3 trillion per year financing gap between current the Group’s expertise and support – COP26 organisers. While the
baselines and what is required to deliver the UN alongside other international banks – scale of the challenge remains
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in emerging blended finance projects and significant – the Vietnam and
markets and developing countries other than China.
programmes, including the development
Indonesian JETPs alone each
Such sums cannot be delivered through public of frameworks for early coal retirement.
require over $100bn of private
financing alone. They require the international
• Hosted both the Vietnamese and finance – the opportunities
private sector to step up, including in markets
historically considered as too risky for high levels of Indonesian governments as they also remain clear. Blended
launched their JETP events at COP28.
investment. Blended finance – using concessional Finance offers us in Standard
public funds to mobilise much larger volumes of • Standard Chartered became one of the Chartered the chance to make
private capital – can help to close this gap. The founding partners of the Bangladesh use of donor financing to help
Just Energy Transition Partnerships (JETPs) are Climate and Development Partnership, the markets that we call home
an example of such blended finance. which aims to use blended finance to accelerate their journeys
Our hub brings together public and private expertise help Bangladesh adapt to climate towards net zero.”
across the Group, including one of the architects change.
of the South Africa and Vietnam JETPs, to help John Murton
commercialise blended finance. Some of the Senior Sustainability Advisor
objectives of the JETPs – e.g., financing the early
retirement of coal-fired power plants – will require
truly innovative approaches and collaboration.
1 The hub developed an internal working definition in order to differentiate and build upon the Group’s already long-established blended finance reputation
in Export Credit Agency financing. We use ‘Blended Finance’ here to refer to the strategic use of catalytic public (and/or philanthropic) capital and
regulatory reform to increase private sector investment that supports the SDGs. This can happen at a programme level or at a project level and may
involve the creation and use of innovative financing instruments and structures to overcome barriers to investment.
118 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 119
Sustainability
review
3. Carbon Markets In 2023: “For many years, we have
A high-integrity carbon market, combined with • Involved in some of the largest carbon faced a huge challenge and a
corporate commitments to cut emissions and high market transactions, including the degree of scepticism, to build
standards of reporting, can accelerate the global Regional Voluntary Carbon Market the framework for a global
progress towards net zero by 2050. The use of Company and Climate Impact X (CIX) carbon market. With the
high-quality carbon credits can play a part auctions. arrival of the ICVCM’s Core
in a multi-faceted and urgent approach to
decarbonisation, as it enables climate action in • Established primary supply partnerships Carbon Principles and the
sectors and geographies that remain severely with clients in Kenya, Brazil, China and development of end-to-end
underfunded today. Vietnam. carbon market announced
Carbon credits can be complementary to a credible • Educated policymakers, clients and at COP28, that framework
corporate net zero transition plan and help bridge colleagues on the benefits of a liquid now exists. We have all the
the gap between the emissions reductions that can carbon market to bring funding to component parts of a vibrant
be implemented now, and the longer lead time for people and projects that likely would market. We need to make it
technological solutions that are yet to scale. not receive it otherwise. work in practice and make
Standard Chartered has been at the forefront of • Participated in several industry initiatives sure it grows big enough
several initiatives that are working to ensure that a that support development of the global to make a meaningful
high integrity, scalable market develops. We offer
carbon market: the International contribution to global
trading, advisory, financing and risk management
Emissions Trading Association (IETA), net zero.”
services to our clients around the world.
the Integrity Council for the Voluntary
Carbon Markets (ICVCM), the Voluntary Chris Leeds
Head of Carbon Markets
Carbon Markets Integrity Initiative
Development
(VCMI) and the Africa Carbon Markets
Initiative (ACMI).
4. Nature Positive Solutions In 2023: “The Kunming-Montreal
It is estimated that over half of global GDP is • Conducted initial impact and Global Biodiversity Framework
moderately or highly dependent upon nature. dependency assessment to identify our signed by 196 nations puts the
Despite its importance, biodiversity is rapidly exposure to potentially material sectors global economy on a policy
declining. in our CCIB segment. trajectory that is needed to
Having applied international environmental and • Partnered externally with organisations bend the curve on biodiversity
social standards in our financing for more than such as the Ocean Risk and Resilience loss. Now is the opportunity for
20 years, our presence in markets with some of
Action Alliance (ORRAA) and were collective action to halt and
the richest biodiversity in the world positions us to
invited to participate in the UN Global reverse biodiversity loss to
engage with a range of stakeholders. We are guided
by our commercial ambition to increasingly shift Compact Ocean Investment Protocol allow species and ecosystems
Steering Committee.
financial flows toward nature positive outcomes to recover.”
and thereby contribute to the halting and reversing • Welcomed the publication of the
Oliver Withers
of biodiversity loss. Nature is also a critical lever for Taskforce for Nature-related Financial
Head of Nature
climate change mitigation and adaptation and Disclosures (TNFD) guidance and
the hub collaborates with the Carbon Markets recommendations as we see the value
and Adaptation Finance hubs to explore in transparency and comparability
natural climate solutions and ecosystem-based
when reporting on nature-related
adaptation opportunities.
dependencies, impacts, risks and
opportunities.
• In January 2024, the Group joined a
cohort of early adopters of the TNFD
framework preparing to publish our first
TNFD-aligned disclosures in early 2026.
Sustainability review
Climate- and sustainability-related
governance
Sustainability-related risks, opportunities and organisational The responsibility for identifying and managing financial risks
implications are overseen by the Group’s Board, Management from climate change sits with the Group Chief Risk Officer
Team and multiple supporting sub-committees. (GCRO) as the appropriate Senior Management Function
(SMF) under the Senior Managers Regime (SMR). The GCRO is
Board oversight of climate- and sustainability- supported by the Global Head, Enterprise Risk Management,
related risks and opportunities who has day-to-day oversight and responsibility for the
Group’s second line of defence against Climate Risk.
The Board is responsible for the long-term success of the
The structure of the Group’s Board and Management Team can be
Group and its supporting committees consider climate-and
found on pages 137 to 144
sustainability-related risks and opportunities when reviewing
and guiding strategic decisions. Throughout 2023, Board
activities have included reviewing and guiding strategic Supporting governance
decisions on our approach to reach net zero financed
The oversight and management of climate and sustainability-
emissions by 2050. Since 2019, the Board has approved a
related risks and opportunities are an integral part of our
Climate Risk Appetite Statement annually to reflect our aim
business management, involving several executive
to measure and manage the financial and non-financial risks
committees. These committees operate under their terms of
arising from climate change and to reduce emissions related
reference, delineating responsibilities, decision-making
to the Group’s own activities, including those associated
process, authority and the escalation route for any material
with providing financial services to clients, in line with the
issues. Additionally, a number of teams across our business,
Paris Agreement.
risk and functional areas are either dedicated to, or spend a
proportion of their time, working on climate and sustainability-
Management-level governance
related activities. We are also expanding governance and
Each member of the Group Management Team is responsible risk management at the regional, country and segment
for strategically driving climate considerations within their levels to better identify and manage climate-related risks
geography, business segment or function in line with our net and opportunities.
zero roadmap.
Structural overview of Standard Chartered PLC’s climate- and sustainability-related governance
Board oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities
Standard Chartered PLC Board
Culture and Sustainability
Board Risk Committee (BRC) Audit Committee (AC)
Committee (CSC)
Management-level governance
Group Management Team
Group
Group Risk Responsibility
Sustainability Executive Committee
Committee and Reputational
(Sustainability ExCo)
(GRC) Risk Committee
(GRRRC)
Supporting governance
Executive committees
Climate Risk Sustainable
Management Finance Sustainability Operating Steering
Committee Governance Committee (SOSC)
(CRMC) Committee (SFGC)
120 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 121
Sustainability
review
Governance committees and steering groups
Several committees and steering groups support the Group’s Board and Management Team on the management and
monitoring of climate and sustainability-related risks and opportunities and associated impacts on our business and for
our key stakeholders.
Climate- and sustainability-related governance
Agenda frequency
Governance body Chair and inputs Roles and responsibilities Topics covered in 2023
Standard Group Annual update on • Oversight of the Group’s • Received an update on the Group’s
Chartered PLC Chairman Sustainability sustainability strategy sustainability strategy, including
Board progress made against key
Climate Risk
performance indicators and
updates delivered
public commitments
quarterly through
the Group CRO • Received quarterly Climate Risk
report updates through the GCRO reports
• Approved Climate Risk Appetite
Statement and Board-level Risk
Appetite (RA) metrics
• The Board received training on
climate risk scenarios
Board Risk Independent Climate Risk • Provide oversight of the Group’s key • Reviewed, discussed and
Committee Non- updates are risks on behalf of the Board and is the challenged:
(BRC) Executive provided to BRC in primary risk committee at Board level
(i) t he Group’s progress on
Director Group CRO reports that oversees Climate Risk
embedding climate risk in line
six times a year
• Consider the Group’s Risk Appetite with the Prudential Regulation
and make recommendations to the Authority (PRA) Supervisory
Board on the Climate Risk Appetite Statement (SS 3/19)
Statement
(ii) t he results of the Group’s first
• Assess risk types (including Climate bespoke short-term base case
Risk) and the effectiveness of risk and tail risk scenarios and
management frameworks and development of the Group’s
policies internal modelling capabilities,
and
• Provide oversight and challenge the
design and execution of climate- (iii) key focus areas for 2024
related Group-wide enterprise stress
• Reviewed Climate Risk Information
tests mandated by a regulator
Report quarterly
• Monitored adherence to RA metrics
Audit Committee Independent Updated annually in • Responsible for oversight of the • Reviewed changes to the climate
(AC) Non- the fourth quarter Group’s quantitative reporting and carbon emissions-related
Executive and more frequently metrics and controls over quantitative disclosures to be
Director if any material those metrics reported in this Annual Report,
disclosures are and the key controls around those
made outside quantitative disclosures
of the Group’s
Annual Report
Culture and Independent Three times in 2023 • Review the Group’s overall • Received an update on the Group’s
Sustainability Non- sustainability strategy and monitor sustainability strategy, including
Committee Executive its execution risk, regulatory and governance
(CSC) Director matters, public commitments,
• Monitor the development and
and Position Statements
implementation of the Group’s
public commitment to net zero • Reviewed progress on the Group’s
financed emissions by 2050 net zero roadmap
• Oversaw the update and
consolidation of the Group’s
Sustainability Aspirations
• Reviewed and discussed the
Group’s Environmental, Social and
Governance (ESG) rating scores
against prioritised frameworks
Group Risk Group Chief Climate Risk • Ensure the effective management • Received an update on Climate
Committee Risk Officer updates were of Climate Risk in support of the Risk embedding and the Climate
(GRC) (CRO) provided to GRC in Group’s strategy Risk profile as part of the Risk
Group CRO report Information Report
• Review Risk Appetite (RA) and
10 times during 2023
approve Management Team-level • Approved the Management
RA metrics and thresholds for Team-level Climate RA metrics and
Principal Risk Types and integrated monitored adherence to these
risks, including Climate Risk
Sustainability review
Agenda frequency
Governance body Chair and inputs Roles and responsibilities Topics covered in 2023
Group Group Head, Monthly • Oversee and approve Position Reviewed:
Responsibility Conduct, Statements including sector-specific
• Exposure to clients that do
and Financial and cross-sector statements
not comply with enhanced
Reputational Crime and including Climate Risk
environmental and social criteria
Risk Committee Compliance
• Oversee climate-driven Reputational
(GRRRC) • Transactions where Position
and Sustainability Risk Appetite
Statement criteria are not fully met
• Oversee changes to Climate Risk
• Transactions with high or very high
decision frameworks
Reputational Risk with climate
change factors and decisions on
whether to decline transactions
or not
• The process for net zero portfolio
steering and governance, including:
(i) e valuating clients’ transition
plans,
(ii) r efreshed financed emissions
data for clients in sectors where
the Group has set net zero
targets and
(iii) ongoing approach to net zero
portfolio management
• Updates for cross-sector and
sector-specific Position Statements
Sustainability Chief At least eight times • Hold ultimate decision-making Reviewed and approved:
Executive Sustainability a year authority over all material
• New or updated net zero sector
Committee Officer (CSO) Sustainability initiatives as delegated
targets for Aluminium, Steel, Power,
(Sustainability by the Group Management Team
Cement, Residential Mortgages
ExCo)
• Direct actions as necessary for and Commercial Real Estate
areas of improvement to ensure
• Consolidation of the Group’s
the effective implementation of
Sustainability Aspirations
Sustainability initiatives
Discussed:
• Review findings and escalations from
delegated committees (including • The Group’s approach to
but not limited to the Sustainability integrating nature-related risk
Operating Steering Committee) into the business model
• Oversees the net zero programme • The Group’s ESG ratings and
priority disclosures
Climate Risk Global Head, Six times in 2023 • Oversee development and Drove delivery of:
Management Enterprise Risk implementation of the Climate
• Climate-related Group-wide
Committee Management Risk framework, including relevant
stress testing and management
(CRMC) regulatory requirements
scenario analysis
• Oversee all aspects of risk
• Progress associated with
management practices for climate-
integrating Climate Risk across
related financial and non-financial
all impacted risk types
risks, including leadership and
oversight in developing and • Climate Risk-related external
effectively implementing the disclosures, including those
Group’s Climate Risk management discussed in this report
framework
• Climate Risk research with
• Provide structured governance Imperial College London
around engagement with relevant
• Regulatory feedback and
Principal Risk Types impacted by or
supervision
linked to Climate Risk
• Climate-related management
• Provide challenge and recommend
information and Risk Appetite
Climate Risk-related Enterprise Stress
metrics
Test results
• Approach to delivering training
• Review, challenge and provide
and upskilling staff on Climate Risk
input on external disclosures such
across the Group
as Climate Risk-related financial
disclosures, including those set out • Oversight on the development,
by the Taskforce on Climate-related ownership, as well as the results
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) of Climate Risk models in scope
• Monitor and manage the Climate
Risk and net zero profile of the Group
within Risk Appetite
122 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 123
Sustainability
review
Agenda frequency
Governance body Chair and inputs Roles and responsibilities Topics covered in 2023
Sustainable Global Head At least six times • Provide leadership, governance and Reviewed and approved:
Finance of Sustainable a year oversight in delivering the Group’s
• SF products including sustainable
Governance Finance (SF) SF offerings
cash products, sustainable trade
Committee
• Review and endorse SF products finance products and SF retail
(SFGC)
loan products
• Guide the Group in identifying
opportunities in SF and managing • Green and sustainable finance
the greenwashing risks relating to SF transactions including transactions
with climate-related key
performance indicators
• The Group’s approach to launching
sustainable and climate products
• The Group’s Green and Sustainable
Product Framework (GSPF),
encompassing a range of climate
finance activities
• The Group’s Transition Finance
Framework outlining our approach
to defining transition activities
• The Group’s approach to pureplay
clients which align to the Group’s
GSPF
Sustainability Head Monthly • Central forum where all strategic • Tracked delivery of net zero
Operating Strategic priorities related to sustainability sectoral target setting against
Steering Initiatives, are consolidated, prioritised and our commitments
Committee Sustainable agreed upon
• Enforced accountability and
(SOSC) Finance
• Oversee and monitor milestones fostered collaboration across the
and deliverables of sustainability Group to implement the Group’s
initiatives net zero plan requirements and
advance the digitalisation of
• Ensure sustainability investment
Sustainable Finance data and
budget is centrally prioritised and
reporting
allocated to Business and Function’s
Quarterly Performance Reviews • Provided updates on advancement
within the Group’s innovation hubs
• Be a forum for escalation and
decision-making
Governance of our Sustainable Finance frameworks
We have Product Programme Guidance documents which • Our Sustainability Bond Framework governs our
underpin each Sustainable Finance product that we offer, sustainable debt products, providing transparency and
signed off by a delegate of the Sustainable Finance guidance on the use of proceeds and the impact of the
Governance Committee (SFGC) following approval of green, social and sustainability bonds and notes issued by
the product construct by the SFGC. the Group. It has received a Second Party Opinion from
Morningstar Sustainalytics, which confirms our Framework
The SFGC is our forum for reviewing Sustainable Finance
is credible, impactful and aligns with industry guidelines.
products and derives its authority from the Group
For more infromation, please visit sc.com/sustainability-
Responsibility and Reputational Risk Committee (GRRRC). The
bond-framework.
SFGC is our foremost committee on managing greenwashing
risk in Sustainable Finance product design and labelling. • We have outlined our approach to defining Transition
Finance in our Transition Finance Framework. This
• Our Green and Sustainable Product Framework sets out
Framework is informed by the 2023 IEA NZE 2050 scenario
our approach to mitigating greenwashing risk across our
and is reviewed annually to ensure it is in line with the
product suite and defines the themes and activities that
latest available science and industry standards.
we consider eligible for green and social financing. The
For more information, please visit sc.com/transition-
Framework is informed by international market guidelines
finance-framework.
and standards on green and sustainable finance, among
others, the Climate Bonds Standard, EU Taxonomy for
sustainable activities and the Green Loan Principles.
Co-authored with Morningstar Sustainalytics, our
Framework is reviewed annually to ensure it remains in line
with the latest industry standards. For more infromation,
please visit sc.com/gspf.
Sustainability review
Incentive structure
Our sustainability-related goals and targets are reflected Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
in the measures that determine employee incentives and LTIP awards are granted to senior executives who have the
variable remuneration. Variable remuneration is based ability to influence the long-term performance of the Group.
on measurable performance criteria linked to the Group’s Members of the Group Management Team are eligible for
strategy and overseen by the Remuneration Committee. LTIP awards, which may also be granted to other employees
in the Group.
Annual incentive
Sustainability continues to be included in the 2024–26 LTIP
Annual incentives are based on the assessment of the Group
through the following performance measures:
scorecard which contains financial and strategic measures
and is operated for the majority of our employees. • Accelerating zero: Progress towards our 2030 Sustainable
Finance mobilisation target in each of the three
Sustainability-related measures continue to be included in the
performance years
2024 Group scorecard related to:
• Lifting participation: Year-on-year growth in financing
• Growing Sustainable Finance income in our CCIB segment
activity with female and/or small and medium enterprise
• Reducing our financed emissions for key sectors in line (SME) clients and other underserved populations
with our risk appetite and based on our interim 2030
• Delivering on our Sustainability Aspiration to further
sectoral targets
develop the global sustainability ecosystem by actively
• Meeting key milestones for building client and transaction- contributing to global partnerships, initiatives and cross-
related, and central data infrastructure for delivering on sector collaborations
our net zero ambition
Further details can be found in the Directors’ remuneration report
on pages 195 to 204
• Reducing Scope 1 and 2 emissions in line with our
operational net zero by 2025 target
Key individuals or teams with climate-related objectives which impact variable remuneration
In addition to the Group scorecard and LTIP performance measures, dedicated climate and sustainability-related objectives
apply across functional and regional scorecards including the Risk function, and individual objectives add a further link between
sustainability outcomes and reward.
Individual or team Objectives/performance linkage
Group Members of the Group MT are eligible for an annual incentive based on the outcome of our Group scorecard
Management and an LTIP award which both include sustainability-related measures. Further details can be found on
Team (MT) pages 200 to 203 of this Annual Report.
Group Chief Risk The Group CRO is responsible and accountable for Climate Risk under the Financial Conduct Authority’s Senior
Officer (CRO) Managers and Certification Regime. This includes responsibility for overseeing the delivery of the Climate Risk
workplan covering Climate Risk governance, Climate Risk assessment, Climate Risk scenario analysis and stress
testing, and Climate Risk disclosure.
Chief The CSO helps drive the Group’s sustainability agenda and brings together its Sustainable Finance, Sustainability
Sustainability Strategy, Net Zero Delivery, Strategic Initiatives and Environmental and Social Risk Management (ESRM) teams.
Officer (CSO) Performance measures for the CSO include progress against the delivery of net zero roadmap and Sustainable
Finance targets.
Global Head of The Global Head of Supply Chain Management is responsible for ensuring and overseeing the delivery of supply
Supply Chain chain emissions and climate related objectives and plans in partnership with contract owners across the Bank.
Management This includes baselining our supply chain emissions related to products and services, supply chain emissions
disclosures, and the implementation of plans to reduce supply chain-related emissions and managing climate
risks in partnership with our suppliers.
Global Head, The Global Head, Property is responsible for delivering on our aim to reach net zero carbon emissions in our own
Property operations by 2025.
All employees Selected sustainability-related targets are incorporated into our annual Group scorecard which determines
annual incentives for the majority of our employees.
124 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 125
Sustainability
review
Managing Environmental
and Social Risk
We seek to proactively manage Environmental and Social Our approach is embedded directly into our credit approval
(E&S) Risks and impacts arising from the Group’s client process and supports us to work with our stakeholders to
relationships and transactions. identify, manage, mitigate and monitor the potential impacts
that stem from our financing decisions.
For over 20 years, our cross-sector Environmental and Social
Risk Management (ESRM) Framework has helped us apply Our Position Statements, approved by the Group
international standards and best practices across all our Responsibility and Reputational Risk Committee (GRRRC),
markets. In the frontline, our ESRM team within the Chief outline the cross-sector and sector-specific criteria we apply
Sustainability Officer (CSO) organisation oversees the to assess whether to provide financial services to our clients.
management of E&S Risks associated with our client
We use these statements – which draw on International
relationships.
Finance Corporation (IFC) Performance Standards, the
For further information please refer to our ESRM Framework Equator Principles (EP) and global best practice – to assess
at sc.com/esriskframework
E&S risk related to our financing.
Position Statements
Cross-sector Position Statements
Climate Change Human Rights Nature
Sector-specific Position Statements
Chemicals and
Agribusiness Extractive Industries
Manufacturing
Infrastructure
Power Generation Thermal Coal
and Transport
Prohibited Activities
We reviewed 1,341 clients and 708 transactions that presented During the year, we evolved our approach to nature risk
potential for elevated E&S risk in 2023. If we find a material assessment. This included a loan book analysis to identify
E&S issue, we take steps to proactively engage the client to impacts and dependencies from nature-related risks at sector,
mitigate identified risks and impacts, and support and guide country and financial services levels. The Group’s cross-sector
our clients to improve their E&S performance over time. Nature Position Statement provides a consolidated view of
However, for clients who do not meet our Position Statement our approach to managing Nature Risk across our business,
criteria, we may look to withdraw financial services and operations and supply chain.
exit the relationship if we cannot work with them to align Read more about our Position Statements
over time. at sc.com/positionstatements
In 2023, we completed the review and update of our Our list of Prohibited Activities can be found
at sc.com/prohibitedactivities
cross-sector Climate Change and sector-specific Position
Statements covering all sensitive sectors, with the Our reporting against the Equator Principles can be found
requirements to take effect in 2024. We also commenced the on page 504 or at sc.com/equatorprinciples
review of our cross-sector Human Rights Position Statement.
Sustainability review
Managing Climate Risk
We have designed an approach that begins to embed Climate Risk with impacted Principal Risk Types (PRTs) within our central
Enterprise Risk Management Framework based around two principles:
1. T reat Climate Risk like a traditional risk type. Climate Risk 2. Recognise and build for where Climate Risk is different.
may lead to financial losses and non-financial detriments, Climate Risk is likely to crystallise over much longer time
much like Credit Risk, and should be managed as such to horizons and is inherently difficult to quantify. Its unique
limit the Group’s exposure to these detriments. This means features and a need for granular forward-looking
embedding Climate Risk considerations into existing risk measurements require the use and development of
identification and management processes, governance, new tools and methodologies to quantify and analyse
reporting, scenario analysis, strategy, and financial planning. the implications.
Our climate toolkit – Processes for identifying and assessing Climate Risks
We have invested in a number of toolkits and partnerships to quantitatively measure climate-related physical and transition
risks and we have conducted scenario analysis across a range of plausible scenarios in 2023. We continue to engage with our
clients to understand their climate adaptation, mitigation and transition plans. In 2024 and beyond, we aim to reduce reliance
on third-party models with the development of our internal carbon elasticity and IFRS 9 expected credit loss models including
climate-related impacts.
Toolkits and
Partnerships Description
In-house Client-level Climate Risk Questionnaire (CRQ) to assess and gather information on client mitigation and
Climate Risk adaptation plans. The information gathered through these CRQs form part of the Client-level Climate Risk
Questionnaires Assessments (CRAs).
Munich Re Physical Risk assessment tool built on extensive re-insurance experience to obtain location-based hazard and risk
scores under current day for acute weather events (e.g., storms, floods, or wildfire) and longer-term time horizons
(2050, 2100) for Representative Concentration Pathway (RCP) scenarios 2.6, 4.5 and 8.5, and for chronic risks such
as sea level rise.
Baringa Partners Scenario expansion models and expertise used to design bespoke short-term scenario narratives and build
scenarios for management stress tests and implement them within the Aladdin Climate transition risk models.
BlackRock Aladdin Climate transition risk models are used to translate the impact of transition and Physical Risk scenario
variables on company financials and probabilities of default, and obtain temperature alignment results to assess
a temperature score to indicate client- and portfolio-level global warming potential up to 2030.1
S&P Global Asset locations, energy mixes and client-level emissions i.e., absolute emissions (tonnes of COe) and emissions
2
intensities by revenue (tonnes of COe/$ million) for Scope 1 and 2 and, where available, for Scope 3 emissions.
2
Imperial College Academic expertise leveraged to advance our understanding of climate science, upskill our employees and
London senior management, and progress independent research on climate risks with a focus on emerging markets.
1 The inclusion of the Aladdin Climate analytics, based on models from BlackRock, contained in this report should not be construed as a characterisation
regarding the materiality or financial impact of that information. The Aladdin Climate analytics include non-financial metrics that are subject to measurement
uncertainties resulting from limitations inherent in the nature and the methods used for determining such data. The Aladdin Climate analytics are not fixed and
are likely to change and evolve over time. The Aladdin Climate analytics rely on comparatively new analysis and there is limited peer review or comparable data
available. BlackRock does not guarantee and shall not be responsible for the content, accuracy, timeliness, non-infringement, or completeness of Aladdin Climate
analytics contained herein, or have any liability resulting from the use of the Aladdin Climate analytics in this report, or any actions taken in reliance on any
information herein.
Limitations with existing tools and data
We recognise that there are limitations when assessing existing adaptation measures, governmental policies to
Climate Risk, given approaches to quantifying Climate Risk protect and build for changing climate, and structural
are nascent and data availability and coverage across our adaptation e.g., age and quality of construction or flood
clients continue to present challenges. This is particularly true defences and dams protecting the property. Over time,
in emerging markets where Climate Risk-related disclosure sovereigns and policymakers are also expected to drive
and preparedness can be less advanced. We have seen market trends such as investment in adaptation plans,
limitations in coverage, granularity of information at client technological advancements, innovative risk transfer and
group and entity level and timeliness of data leading to the mitigation approaches to combat the potential impacts
use of proxies such as regional and/or sector averages and of climate change. Such assumptions are not factored into
sovereign heatmaps. Most tool outputs do not factor in our analysis.
126 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 127
Sustainability
review
We have seen an improvement in data coverage since the The data we have captured through various sources has
creation of our Climate Analyst team in the first line of helped us develop our client-level climate-risk assessments for
defence and Relationship Managers engaging clients to close both existing and new clients, improve our internal climate
data gaps. Additionally, we are in the process of setting up a modelling capabilities and strengthen the risk measurement
centralised data store which will capture all sustainability- and monitoring of our portfolios.
related data for our clients, including monitoring of the data
quality, and reduce the usage of proxies over time. We
recognise that data coverage will keep pace with client
disclosures and reporting, which is likely to be aligned with
timelines on sovereign requirements and commitments. This
places some reliance on proxy information, and we will refine
our evaluations and methodologies progressively as the
availability and quality of data improves.
Integrating climate-related risks into overall risk management, client segments and own operations
We manage Climate Risk according to the characteristics of the impacted Principal Risk Types (PRTs). Risk Framework Owners
for the impacted PRT are an integral component of the Enterprise Risk Management Framework (ERMF) and responsible for
embedding Climate Risk requirements within their respective risk types. In 2023, we have continued to build Climate Risk into
existing risk management frameworks and processes. The areas where we have made progress to embed Climate Risk
considerations within the first line of defence and across PRTs are listed in the following table.
Impacted Risk Type Key updates in 2023 Next steps Page
Credit Risk – CCIB • Completed ~4,100 Climate Risk Assessments (CRAs) • Enhance portfolio 300
accounting for ~85-90 per cent of our corporate management and oversight
portfolio limits. on clients exposed to
Disruption to clients’ business climate-related risks within
• Established linkages to Credit Underwriting Principles
models due to physical or the credit decisioning
for four sectors (Oil and Gas, Shipping, Commercial
transition risk impacting their processes.
Real Estate (CRE) and Mining), spanning climate-
profitability and thereby
related analysis, portfolio-level caps and additional • Enhance quality and
affecting their capacity to
data gathering measures. streamlining underlying
repay debt, or the capital
client-level assessments
and collateral required to • Designed Version 3 of the Climate Risk Questionnaire
across financial and
back the loan. with sector-specific nuances and covering questions
non-financial impacts from
related to net zero and Credible Transition Plans
ESG risks including climate
(CTPs).
and net zero.
• Established a Net Zero Climate Risk Working Forum
• Upskill all impacted client
to discuss account plans and risk decisions on high
relationship staff including
Climate Risk and net zero divergent clients.
credit officers with a net zero
• Initiated work on building our approach to assess certification.
physical and transition risk to underlying collateral
• Build Physical Risk grading
specifically for CRE and Shipping portfolios.
capabilities.
• Assessed the impact of climate risks for
approximately 95 per cent of our CCIB portfolio
under different climate scenarios.
• The first-generation transition risk models. for
Corporates (priority sectors including Oil & Gas,
Mining, Steel and Power, and a generic Carbon
Elasticity Model), Sovereign, as well as the
Temperature Alignment models for Automotive
Manufacturers, Oil and Gas, Steel, and sector
agnostic models have been developed.
Credit Risk – CPBB • We now assess physical risk for 79 per cent and • Expand our scenario analysis 298
transition risk for 54 per cent of our CPBB credit capabilities for CPBB across
portfolio as of September 2023. physical and transition risks.
Physical risks, such as rising sea
• We have quantified the transition risk for our top • Continue to refine the
levels and severe flood events,
consumer mortgage markets using energy bills data, transition risk approach to
could adversely impact
where available and proxies based on financed enable factoring in the
repayment ability through
emissions, while utilising actual energy performance impact from transition risk
damages to properties or loss
certificate data for the markets where this on underlying collateral.
of insurance cover, leading to
information is available (currently only Jersey).
potential increases in credit
losses or due to changes in the • Worked with Imperial College London to enhance the
economic environment as the Retail Mortgages physical risk approach (through
economy transitions towards Property Price Index haircut), for usage in stress
lower emissions. testing exercises.
Physical Risk Transition Risk
Sustainability review
Impacted Risk Type Key updates in 2023 Next steps Page
Operational and • Physical risk scenarios impacting our sites and • Gather site locations for our 308
Technology Risk causing disruption to services are assessed for loss material vendors to assess
estimates. their physical risk exposures,
such that suitable continuity
• New sites onboarded within the Group are assessed
Impact of acute or chronic plans can be developed.
for physical risk vulnerabilities.
physical risks may disrupt our
own properties, data centers • Third-party continuity plans have been enhanced to
and third parties leading include climate risk related disruptions.
to business disruptions.
Furthermore, increased
costs may arise through
implementation of practices
such as renewable energy
sources and waste reduction
to reduce emissions.
Country Risk • Our methodology for Physical and Transition Risk • Enhance our methodology 306
Sovereign Rankings serves as an input into the for the assessment of
annual sovereign reviews and quarterly early sovereign physical risks to
Both Physical and Transition warning indicators. limit reliance on static data
risks can have a direct impact sources from external
• We have developed Climate Risk report cards for
on a sovereign’s economic research and expand
approximately ~30 sovereigns covering 75% of GCR
strength and increase their coverage to include
exposure across our footprint, which provide a
cost of borrowing, directly nature/biodiversity risks.
detailed breakdown of the Physical and Transition
impacting overall
Risk scores, along with key takeaways and historic
creditworthiness.
climate disaster statistics.
• We have built an in-house Sovereign climate model
that forecasts Sovereign credit grades across the
various NGFS scenarios.
• Country limit benchmark computations consider
climate factors.
Reputational and • Additional due diligence is conducted to support • Increase in the pace and 305
Sustainability Risk client or transaction level assessments for (i) clients variety of Regulations
covered by the Group’s net zero targets for high- around Sustainability with a
carbon sectors (Oil & Gas, Power, Steel, Aluminium, focus on greenwashing will
Potential for stakeholders to Cement, Automobiles, Shipping, Aviation & CRE) (ii) be a key priority for 2024.
view the Group negatively due clients with a coal nexus as well as (iii) those assessed
• Ensure framework and
to actual or perceived actions as high climate risk.
controls consider new
or inactions in response to
• Governance standards and new controls rolled regulations and the controls
our stated climate, ESG and
out to mitigate the greenwashing risk throughout are embedded in an
net zero commitments.
the lifecycle of Sustainable Finance products. The effective manner.
Increasing expectations from
controls aim to ensure accurate Sustainable Finance
governments, regulators,
labelling and ongoing monitoring of clients, products,
NGOs, investors, and
and transactions, and are continuously reviewed and
individuals heightens
tested for control effectiveness, bearing in mind the
reputational risks.
changing regulatory landscape and innovation in
Sustainable Finance.
• Established key management information to track
divergence of net zero pathways from group-level
sector targets to aid the monitoring of the impact of
climate risk on various portfolios.
Traded Risk • The Traded Risk stress testing framework covers • Extend the tail scenario 308
market impacts from Climate Risk, including an narratives developed for the
assessment of transition effects from climate change CCIB portfolio to develop
Acute physical risk events or a policies and two physical risk scenarios as part of the transition risk scenarios
disruptive transition can cause global Traded Risk scenarios inventory. These flow for the trading book and
sudden changes in the fair into existing Traded Risk Appetite metrics. implement enhancements
value of assets driven by related to Market Risk
commodity price changes. factors and shorter-term
Additional impact may shocks.
result due to trigger sales,
sudden and negative price
adjustments where these
risks are not yet incorporated
into prices.
Physical Risk Transition Risk
128 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 129
Sustainability
review
Impacted Risk Type Key updates in 2023 Next steps Page
Treasury Risk • Progressed towards a more quantitative approach as • Review risk pockets within 309
we continue to consider capital requirements as part high Climate Risk and net
of the Group Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment zero divergent sectors as
Impact on client business Process (ICAAP). part of the ICAAP.
models and their overall
• Commenced monitoring of climate risk-related • Advance our capabilities to
financial stability from
vulnerabilities and readiness of our top corporate assess Climate Risk as part of
transition to a low-carbon
liquidity providers, leveraging our client-level climate the Internal Liquidity
economy can impact capital
risk assessments. Adequacy Assessment
adequacy and/or liquidity
Process (ILAAP).
levels needed to ensure
financial stability during
periods of stress.
Model Risk • The first-generation of internal models have been • Target to enhance physical 309
developed and are in various stages of model risk modelling capabilities,
governance. advancing sector models to
Model Risk may exist from factor in sector-specific
inappropriate design / nuances and building carbon
specification / development / elasticity models for Shipping
governance of a model relative and Automobile.
to the intended business
• Implementation of models
objectives and/or ineffective
within the Group’s
model remediation in response
infrastructure.
to issues identified by model
validation.
Physical Risk Transition Risk
Investing in Climate Risk research
Since the launch of our four-year partnership with Imperial College London in 2020, the Group has sponsored a series of
public research projects. As part of our ongoing academic partnership, we supported new climate research on the range of
opportunities that exist for private investors in nature-related investments and cross-sectoral implications of electrification
of transport in India. In 2023 we have cooperated with Imperial College London on three specific projects:
1. Asset haircuts 3. Cross-sectoral implications of transport electrification
For our key residential mortgage markets, we have in India
collaborated with our academic partner to develop an Exploring the potential impact of introducing a legislative
internal model for revaluating property valuations under requirement for the switch to electric vehicles (EVs), including,
different climate scenarios using the forward-looking risk but not limited to supply chain management, the strain
indices from Munich Re. These revaluations are then used to on existing power supply (as some regions are already
inform haircuts on the property prices and arrive at climate experiencing regular blackouts), and the need for expansion
adjusted Expected Credit Loss values for the mortgage book. of the power grid to support the connection of the required
number of chargers. The research has been completed and
2. Country Risk preparations for the publication have been made.
The cooperation involves the construction of a methodology
used to project sovereign ratings along selected NGFS climate
scenarios for 40 target countries. The model develops a term
structure of sovereign Probability of Defaults (PDs) along
each climate scenario and associated projected ratings and
compares it with a term structure of sovereign PDs and ratings
in a counterfactual (non-climate change) scenario.
Sustainability review
Integrity, conduct and ethics
We aim to live our valued behaviours, Good conduct is critical to delivering positive outcomes for
which are ‘Never settle’, ‘Better together’ our clients, markets and stakeholders. It is fundamental to
achieving our brand promise, here for good. Conduct Risk
and ‘Do the right thing’ through our actions,
may arise anywhere in the Group at any time. The Group
decisions and interactions day-to-day with therefore expects all employees to be responsible for
colleagues and clients. managing Conduct Risk given it is a transversal risk, which
means it impacts every aspect of the Group’s operations.
Our Conduct Risk management approach has been
strengthened since 2022 through several initiatives,
including launching the new Group Conduct Risk
Management Standard, which sets minimum standards for
the management of Conduct Risk across our operations.
The Group employs a risk-based, three lines of defence
approach to Conduct Risk management, where oversight,
governance and controls applied are proportionate to our
assessment of the risk. We set target Conduct Outcomes that
the Group aspires to deliver for clients, external stakeholders,
employees, and the environment.
Code of Conduct and Ethics
The Code of Conduct and Ethics (the Code) remains the
primary tool through which we communicate our conduct To reinforce our shared commitment to the highest
expectations. In October 2023, we launched the refreshed possible standards of conduct, each year we ask our
Code to improve alignment with our Stands, strengthen the colleagues to reconsider what the Code means to them
link between ethics, culture, conduct, and the Group’s strategy. through a refresher e-learning, and to reaffirm their
The Code is intended to be more than a guidance document: commitment. In 2023, 99.8 per cent of our colleagues
rather, it is a code to live by, designed to guide colleagues completed the mandatory training and affirmation.
through how to live our valued behaviours on a day-to-day Colleagues who are overdue without a valid reason are
basis, whatever their business, function, region, or role. We subject to a 25 per cent reduction in their annual variable
have made the Code more user friendly, interactive and compensation for the year they failed to attest.
accessible to all colleagues. The Code also includes more
content on ethical leadership, the way we use personal data, 99.8
%
having a culture of inclusion and feeling safe to speak up.
Download our Code of Conduct and Ethics at
sc.com/codeofconductandethics and visit sc.com/speakingup of employees affirmed recommitment to our Code annually
to find more about how our Speaking Up programme works
130 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 131
Sustainability
review
Speaking Up
Our Speaking Up programme provides a safe, independent This event was part of the wider Global Conduct Week from
and confidential way to report concerns. It helps build and 19 to 23 June, themed ‘Be the Change’, which encouraged
maintain a strong ethical culture, with integrity, trust, and colleagues to think about how their individual actions on
transparency. The early disclosure of concerns reduces the a daily basis can aggregate to a much wider impact on
risk of financial and reputational loss caused by misconduct. outcomes for our clients, customers and other stakeholders.
We encourage colleagues, contractors, clients, suppliers and In addition, in October 2023, a Group-wide panel discussion
members of the public to use our Speaking Up programme was held to celebrate Global Ethics Day, with the theme ‘Ethics
without fear of retaliation. When a concern is raised, our Empowered’. All campaigns included interactive messages
Shared Investigative Services team will determine whether the from our senior leaders and live panel discussions designed to
matter is a Speaking Up disclosure or if it is an out-of-scope both set the tone from the top and nurture it from within.
disclosure. Examples of Speaking Up concerns may include
breaches of regulatory requirements or breaches of Group The Speaking Up programme continues to be utilised
policy or standards. Out-of-scope disclosures will be referred across all countries, businesses and functions, and our
to the appropriate internal teams. If a matter is considered a 2023 MyVoice survey found that 88 per cent of employees
Speaking Up Disclosure, relevant Shared Investigative Services (no change from 2022) felt comfortable raising concerns
and/or Employee Relations colleagues will conduct fact- through these channels. The Board reviews a Speaking Up
finding into the matter, with any follow-up action taken as report annually. For the period July 2022 to June 2023 a
required following the fact-finding process. three per cent (34 cases) decrease was noted in the volume
of total disclosures via Speaking Up channels compared
Throughout 2023, we hosted a series of awareness campaigns
with the previous period (i.e. July 2021 to June 2022).
to ensure that our colleagues understand the importance
of upholding our conduct standards and know how, and
88
when, to Speak Up. To recognise Whistleblowers’ Day on %
23 June, the Global Head of Conduct, Financial Crime and
Compliance issued a Group-wide communication underlining
of employees in our MyVoice survey felt comfortable raising
the importance of Speaking Up. A World Whistleblowers’ Day concerns through Speaking Up channels
panel discussion was held, covering Speaking Up and ESG
(Environmental, Social and Governance) topics, with Group
Independent Non-Executive Director and Whistleblowing
Champion Phil Rivett as a panellist.
Visit our Speaking Up programme’s website https://secure.ethicspoint.
eu/domain/media/en/gui/108379/index.html
Fighting financial crime
Access to the financial system helps transform lives around Since the beginning of the war in Ukraine on 24 February
the world, helping to reduce poverty and spur economic 2022, the authorities of the European Union, United Kingdom,
development. But the financial system is also used by those United States, and several other nations have imposed
involved in some of today’s most damaging crimes – from multiple rounds of sanctions against Russia by targeting a
human trafficking to terrorism, corruption and the drug wide range of Russian entities (state-owned and private) and
trade. Our ambition is to help tackle these crimes by making a large number of Russian elites, oligarchs, political leaders
the financial system a hostile environment for criminals and and officials. While the pace of change and the complexity of
terrorists. We have no appetite for breaches in laws and these sanctions against Russia are unprecedented and had
regulations related to financial crime. the potential to create areas of uncertainty as to the scope of
some of the regulatory prohibitions, we have sought to comply
Our Conduct, Financial Crime & Compliance (CFCC) team
with these requirements fully and promptly. This work remains
sets our financial crime risk management framework. We
a significant area of focus for teams across the first and second
seek to protect our clients and communities against money
line of defence.
laundering (AML), terrorist financing, sanctions, fraud and
other risks, applying core controls such as client due-diligence,
screening and monitoring, and strengthening our people’s
understanding as to how to identify, manage and mitigate
such risks. In addition, anti-bribery and corruption (ABC) We have invested significantly to ensure our employees
controls aim to prevent colleagues, or third parties working are properly equipped to combat financial crime. In 2023,
on our behalf, from engaging in bribery or corruption. 99.9 per cent of colleagues and governance body members
A particular focus of our financial crime investigatory teams completed financial crime mandatory e-learnings which
is the use of data analytics to identify those clients and cover topics such as ABC, AML including terrorist financing,
cases which generate the greatest financial crime risk. This sanctions, tax evasion and fraud topics (Asia: 99.9 per cent,
has strengthened the second line of defence in support of AME: 99.8 per cent, EA: 99.8 per cent, Governance body
colleagues in business lines and country teams across members: 100 per cent).
the Group.
99.9
To mitigate the risk of financial crime, particularly laundering %
the proceeds of corruption, in the lead-up to, during and
after major political elections in footprint markets, the of colleagues and governance members completed financial
Group conducts enhanced monitoring designed to identify crime mandatory e-learnings
and investigate transactions of potential concern. In 2023,
enhanced monitoring was conducted during major elections
and times of political transition or conflict, for example in
Nigeria, Sierra Leone and Zimbabwe.
Sustainability review
Fighting financial crime continued
For those in high-risk roles and functions, we delivered Collaborative initiatives
additional training across all financial crime areas, including Our public-private partnerships are aimed at producing new
in-depth awareness on Russia sanctions, ABC training for insights about various criminal typologies and advances in
targeted roles, training on tax evasion risks, trade AML, and how we collectively combat financial crime in an increasing
money laundering risks concerned with money mules and number of jurisdictions, including Singapore, Hong Kong,
shell companies. We also delivered new training modules South Africa, India, the UK and UAE.
on financial crime risks in fintech and digital assets. In
Throughout 2023, we also engaged with peers in contributing
addition, masterclasses and forums were held to deepen
to the ongoing dialogue to advance effectiveness in
understanding. We shared our Supplier Charter, which sets
combating financial crime through our active participation
out our principles and expectations, and provides guidance
in several of the leading industry groups, including the
related to ABC, with 11,563 suppliers and third parties across
Wolfsberg Group of global banks, Madison Group and
48 markets.
UK Finance.
This was supported by our Group-wide financial crime
We also participated in discussions and forums with many
awareness campaign, ‘The Whole Story’, which aimed to
external thought leaders including participation with the
raise employee awareness of the real-life impact of financial
World Economic Forum’s Partnering Against Corruption
crime and highlight the work we are doing individually and
Initiative and United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime,
collectively to build a robust risk culture and lead in the fight
in addition to hosting events with clients designed to foster
against financial crime. The Whole Story 2023 theme of ‘Let’s
dialogue on the tackling of financial crime.
get #fightingfit’ focused on how we can reboot and recharge
the fight against financial crime and play a part in driving the
For more, visit sc.com/fightingfinancialcrime
right outcomes for our clients, through the right conduct and
culture, vigilance and risk management.
Responsible lending and fair treatment of our customers in our CPBB segment
The Group’s Board of Directors provides oversight of the Loan modifications
Group’s treatment of customers through its reporting and Where possible, practical support programmes may be
committee structures. The relevant governance forum or Risk offered to customers experiencing financial difficulty. Loan
Committee is required to challenge the business for any new modification options that may be offered to our customers
or material product proposals prior to the commencement of take into account the most recently available information
the product approval process. on the customer’s income, expenditures and circumstances.
Collections staff managing these arrangements are trained
Escalations may be taken to the CPBB Risk Committee chaired
to discuss options thoroughly with customers in order that
by the CPBB Chief Risk Officer or the Group Risk Committee
any restructured payments, if agreed, are kept affordable.
chaired by the Group Chief Risk Officer, and ultimately to the
Group’s Board and Board Risk Committee. Oversight and
governance of Collections is performed by the CPBB Risk Collections
function with regular reviews of performance metrics and Across the Group, while the approach may vary across
complaints-handling data. markets in line with local regulations, programmes to assist
retail banking borrowers in financial distress are handled by
Complaints management Collections teams.
Formal avenues are established for CPBB customers to lodge The expectation on the Bank’s Collections teams include
complaints. A complaints-handling process has been put in meeting the following requirements:
place to enable the proper receipt, acknowledgement and
independent and effective handling of complaints, which • Providing a fair and reasonable treatment regarding any
are to be resolved and notified to customers within a late fees
reasonable turnaround time without compromising the • Aligning calling and visitation hours to local regulations
quality of the review.
and practices
At the global level, key complaints insights, trends and
• Updating the financial status of customers on a timely basis
root causes are provided to the CPBB Risk Committee every
in our systems to support fair treatment
month. Examples of key metrics that are used to track and
manage complaints across CPBB markets include: total • Having all customer interactions with the Collections
number of complaints received in the month split by type teams, complaints and feedback monitored and regularly
and root cause, including sub-categories such as potential reviewed
inappropriate sales, proven mis-selling or fraud, and
All Collections staff responsible for dealing with customers
percentage of complaints resolved within the pre-
in financial distress are trained prior to commencement
determined turnaround time.
of collection activities, and in particular, are required to be
familiar with the Bank’s Code of Conduct and Ethics. Where
external collections agencies are utilised, these agencies
undergo assessment and due diligence in accordance with
Group sourcing standards and their staff must undertake the
same training as the Group’s internal Collections teams.
132 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 133
Sustainability
review
Respecting human rights
We strive to be a responsible company and respect human Standard Chartered will not enter into relationships with
rights across our business. We recognise that the global suppliers involved in human trafficking, modern slavery, or
nature of our business may expose us to the risk of modern forced labour. Suppliers that are identified as presenting
slavery and human trafficking in our operations, supply chain higher risks of modern slavery are subject to enhanced due
and client relationships and we are committed to managing diligence. Our Supplier Charter sets out the principles for
and mitigating these risks. Our Modern Slavery Statement the behavioural standard that Standard Chartered expects
details our approach and actions to manage modern slavery from all its suppliers, and those within a supplier’s sphere of
risks across our value chain. influence that assist them in performing their obligations to us.
Read our Modern Slavery Statement at sc.com/modernslavery Read our Supplier Charter at sc.com/suppliercharter
Due diligence is a central part of our approach in assessing Our Fair Pay Charter sets out the principles by which we seek
and managing risks associated with the provision of financial to deliver fair and competitive remuneration to all employees.
services to our clients. We approach this due diligence in We use these principles to guide reward and performance
accordance with our Environmental and Social Risk decision-making globally, including how we set, structure
Management (ESRM) and Financial Crime Compliance and deliver remuneration. Further information on our
(FCC) frameworks. alignment to the Fair Pay Charter can be found in our
2023 Diversity, Equality and Inclusion Report available at
Our Position Statement on Human Rights is a key part of our
sc.com/diversityfairpayreport.
framework and was developed following engagement with a
range of external stakeholders, including expert practitioners
and civil society organisations. Like our cross-sector Position
Statements, the Human Rights Position Statement applies to
our clients, suppliers and employees and is regularly reviewed
to ensure it addresses emerging risks and issues.
Read more about our ESRM Framework and Position Statements
at sc.com/esriskframework or sc.com/positionstatements
Directors’ report Group Chairman’s governance overview
Group Chairman’s The Remuneration Committee continues to work hard to implement
the remuneration strategy approved in 2022. Our Directors’
Remuneration Report, which details the key activities of the
governance overview Remuneration Committee in 2023, can be found on page 182.
In January, we appointed Linda Yueh as an independent Non-
Executive Director (INED). Linda then succeeded Jasmine Whitbread
as chair of the Sustainability and Culture Committee (CSC) following
Jasmine’s retirement from the Board in May. Jasmine has been an
excellent contributor to the Board across her eight years and has led
the CSC with distinction. We are also very sorry to see the departure
of Andy Halford, who stepped down from his Group Chief Financial
Officer (GCFO) role in January 2024, after a tenure of over nine years,
marked by his very significant contributions to the Group.
We welcomed Diego De Giorgi to the Group in September 2023 as
GCFO Designate, following a thorough external talent mapping and
selection process overseen by the Governance and Nomination
Committee (GNC). Following regulatory approval, Diego began his
role in January 2024 following a thorough induction programme and
handover from Andy. Further detail regarding the changes made to
our Board appears in the GNC report starting on page 177.
We have been following the proposals for UK Audit and Corporate
Dr José Viñals Governance (ACG) reforms, both at Board level and across our
Group Chairman committees. Following the Financial Reporting Council (FRC)
publication of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2024, we are
considering the changes in readiness for the application of the new
“ In times of uncertainty, a robust
UK Code in 2025, and additional internal control reporting provisions
corporate governance framework coming into force in the following year.
We travelled to a number of markets as a Board during 2023, with
is especially important.”
visits to Hong Kong, Jakarta and Seoul; in addition, onward market
visits were made by a number of directors to obtain an on-the-ground
perspective of the business, opportunities and challenges faced. In
In my opening letter, I referred to the uncertainties in our markets each market we visited as a Board, employee engagement sessions
caused by the multiple geopolitical and macroeconomic events were held where directors met and listened to colleagues from across
affecting the year. These require our close attention given their ability our footprint, either face-to-face or through hybrid mechanisms.
to impact our various businesses in quite different ways. The Board We welcomed the opportunity to engage with so many of our valued
has monitored these developments carefully and proactively, colleagues, both long-standing employees and newer recruits. These
devoting agenda time at the Board and across our committees and market visits provided an opportunity to test enhancements made to
also considering them at the Group’s International Advisory Council the Board’s workforce engagement model, which facilitate more face-
(IAC), which includes representatives from our Management Team. to-face contact following our emergence from the COVID pandemic.
The Board also received a series of briefings from internal and Details of the changes to our workforce engagement model are set
external experts who provided valuable insights from their diplomatic, out in the CSC report on page 174. Apart from allowing us to connect
central banking, economic, regional and political vantage points to with colleagues from across our footprint, overseas board visits also
help us prepare for events which may occur in the future. In the same provide opportunities for the Board to strengthen the links with
vein, the Board Risk Committee (BRC) and Audit Committee (AC) subsidiary boards. The Board is planning to visit several countries
jointly held a Blue Sky Thinking session on forward-looking geopolitics across our footprint in 2024. Further detail regarding Board
and their impact on the work of those committees. The session was engagement with stakeholders appears on page 157.
facilitated by Robert Zoellick, the Chair of our IAC. Engagement with all stakeholders, including, of course, our investors is
In times of uncertainty, a robust corporate governance framework is key to our decision-making. I hosted a stewardship event in November
especially important, and this report sets out how the Board and our alongside the chairs of the Audit and Remuneration Committees to
committees work to ensure that risks are addressed, opportunities are provide an update regarding the Group’s strategy, including with
taken, and the Group continues to deliver sustainable value. respect to sustainability, and on the work of our Board committees.
Close engagement has continued between the Board and our
The Board was disappointed with the market reaction to the Group’s subsidiary boards, through regular exchanges among the chairs,
third-quarter results. We considered carefully the reasons for that with committee chairs and other INEDs.
our advisers and also at our December Board meeting, from which we
drew a number of lessons. The Corporate Plan is an important part of the Board’s agenda each
year. In June, we held a deep and productive two-day strategy
The Board’s priorities for 2023 were guided by our business objectives, discussion, which considered any impact from the economic and
the environment in which we operate and suggestions from last year’s political headwinds emerging in 2023. The session concluded with
externally facilitated Board evaluation. These were woven into the Board’s firm belief that it remains the right strategy for the Group.
agendas at the beginning of the year and reviewed regularly. Throughout the year, the Board considered a number of strategic
In February 2023, the banking sector faced volatility caused by the opportunities for growth in the context of our Corporate Plan and
collapse of the Silicon Valley Bank which was followed by that of Risk Appetite.
Credit Suisse. The BRC monitored the situation carefully, receiving Finally, the Board remains confident for the Group’s future and is
regular updates from management on our own financial position committed to our strategy and our purpose, and is laser focused on
and actions to address issues arising in the markets. These were also developing sustained and sustainable returns within our Risk Appetite.
shared with the Board which also received updates at meetings.
Information and cybersecurity (ICS) risk was also a key area of focus
for both the Board and the BRC in 2023. The BRC devoted significant
time to reviewing and discussing ICS matters, including a new ICS Risk
Appetite Statement that was also brought to the Board. The AC had
a very busy year, reviewing internal controls and assurance around the
Group’s activities. It paid close attention to the carrying value of loans Dr José Viñals
and investments in certain industries, locations and subsidiaries, Group Chairman
especially China.
136 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 137
Directors’
report
Board of Directors Committee key Committee Chair shown in green
A Audit Committee
Ri Board Risk Committee
S Culture and Sustainability Committee
N Governance and Nomination Committee
R Remuneration Committee
Experience José has substantial experience José has held many other board and advisory
Dr José Viñals (69)
in the international regulatory arena and has positions, including chair of Spain’s Deposit
Group Chairman
exceptional understanding of the economic, Guarantee Fund, chair of the International
Appointed October 2016 and Group financial and political dynamics of our Relations Committee at the European
Chairman in December 2016. José was markets and of global trade. He has a Central Bank, member of the Economic and
appointed to the Court of Standard broad network of decision-makers in the Financial Committee of the European Union,
Chartered Bank in April 2019. jurisdictions in our footprint. and chair of the Working Group on
Institutional Investors at the Bank for
Career Until 2016, José was the Financial
International Settlements.
Counsellor and the Director of the Monetary
and Capital Markets Department at the External appointments José is Co-Chair
International Monetary Fund (IMF) and was of the United Nations’ Alliance of Global
responsible for the oversight and direction Investors for Sustainable Development
of the IMF’s monetary and financial sector (GISD). He is a board member of the
work. He was the IMF’s chief spokesperson Institute of International Finance (IIF), a
on financial matters, including global member of the board of directors of the
financial stability. During his tenure, José Bretton Woods Committee, member of
was a member of the Plenary and Steering the Leadership Council of CityUK, and
Committee of the Financial Stability member of the Business Advisory Group
Board, playing a key role in the reform of to the Director General of the World Trade
international financial regulation. Prior to the Organisation (WTO).
IMF, José began his career as an economist
Committees N
and as a member of the faculty at Stanford
University, before going to the Central Bank
of Spain, where he was the Deputy Governor.
He is a past President of the International
Monetary Conference.
Experience Bill is a career banker with In 2011, Bill founded Renshaw Bay, an
Bill Winters (62)
significant frontline global banking alternative asset management firm, where
Group Chief Executive
experience and a proven track record of he was chairman and CEO. He stepped down
Appointed June 2015. Bill was also leadership and financial success. He has on appointment to the Standard Chartered
appointed to the Court of Standard extensive experience of working in emerging PLC Board. Bill was previously a non-executive
Chartered Bank in June 2015. markets and a proven record in spotting and director of Pension Insurance Corporation plc
nurturing talent. and RIT Capital Partners plc. He received a
CBE in 2013. Bill is a director of Standard
Career Bill began his career with JP Morgan,
Chartered Holdings Limited.
where he went on to become one of its top
five executives and later Co-Chief Executive External appointments Bill is an
Officer at the investment bank from 2004 independent non-executive director of
until he stepped down in 2009. Bill was Novartis International AG, listed on SIX
invited to be a committee member of the Swiss Exchange. He is also an Advisory
Independent Commission on Banking to Group Member of the Integrity Council for
recommend ways to improve competition Voluntary Carbon Markets and a member
and financial stability in banking. of the Steering Committee of the UK
Subsequently, he served as an adviser to Voluntary Carbon Markets Forum.
the Parliamentary Commission on Banking
Standards and was asked by the Court of the Bill leads the Management Team
Bank of England to complete an independent
review of the bank’s liquidity operations.
As announced on 1 August 2022, Christine Hodgson retired from the Board on 31 January 2023. Jasmine Whitbread retired from the Board on
3 May 2023.
As announced on 21 December 2023, Andy Halford stepped down as Group Chief Financial Officer and from the Board on 2 January 2024,
and therefore will not seek re-election at the 2024 Annual General Meeting (AGM).
As announced on 16 February 2024, Gay Huey Evans will step down from the Board with effect from 29 February 2024. Carlson Tong’s departure
from the Board will take place on 9 May 2024, ahead of the AGM. Diane Jurgens will join the Board as an INED, with effect on 1 March 2024.
Directors’ report Board of Directors
Experience Gay has extensive banking and investment banking and investment
Gay Huey Evans, CBE (69)
financial services experience with significant management. She was previously a
Independent Non-Executive Director
commercial and UK regulatory and non-executive director at Aviva plc, the
Appointed April 2015. Gay was appointed governance experience. London Stock Exchange Group plc and Itau
to the Court of Standard Chartered Bank Career Gay spent over 40 years working BBA International Plc. In 2016, she received
in April 2019. within the financial services industry, the an OBE for services to financial services
and diversity and a CBE for services to the
international capital markets and with the
economy and philanthropy in the Queen’s
UK financial regulator. Gay spent seven years
Birthday Honours 2021. Gay is a former Chair
with the Financial Services Authority from
of the London Metal Exchange.
1998 to 2005, where she was director of
markets division, capital markets sector External appointments Gay is a non-
leader, with responsibility for establishing a executive director of ConocoPhillips and
market-facing division for the supervision of S&P Global, and a non-executive member
market infrastructure, oversight of market of the HM Treasury board. Gay also sits on
conduct and developing markets policy. From the panel of senior advisers at Chatham
2005 to 2008, Gay held a number of roles at House and the board of the Benjamin
Citibank, including head of governance, Citi Franklin House.
Alternative Investments, EMEA, before joining
Barclays Capital where she was vice chair of
Committees Ri
Experience Jackie is a Chartered and Africa. She was Group Chief Financial
Jackie Hunt (55)
Accountant and has spent most of her Officer of Standard Life plc from 2010 to
Independent Non-Executive Director
career within financial services. She 2013, where she helped transform the life
Appointed October 2022. Jackie was brings significant UK and international insurer into a diverse savings, pensions and
also appointed to the Court of Standard financial services experience, including asset management business. Jackie was
Chartered Bank in October 2022. asset management, insurance, regulatory previously the Senior Independent Director
and accounting knowledge. of National Express Group PLC, a non-
executive director of TheCityUK and the
Career Jackie has held a number of senior
Deputy Chair of the FCA Practitioner Panel.
management positions in companies
She was also an independent non-executive
including Aviva, Hibernian Group, Norwich
director of Man Group PLC, Rothesay Life
Union Insurance, PwC and RSA Insurance.
PLC and OneWeb Holdings Limited.
From 2016, Jackie was a member of the
Allianz SE management Board with executive External appointments Jackie is an
responsibility for the asset management independent non-executive director
and US life insurance divisions, a position of Willis Towers Watson plc.
she held until 2021. Prior to that, Jackie
was an executive director of Prudential
Committees A S
plc and CEO of Prudential UK, Europe
Experience Robin brings extensive completing her term in May 2022. She
Robin Lawther, CBE (62)
international banking experience in received a CBE for services to finance
Independent Non-Executive Director
global markets and financial institutions. and diversity in the Queen’s Birthday
Appointed July 2022. Robin was In addition to a broad understanding of Honours 2020. From 2018 to 2023, she
appointed to the Court of Standard commercial banking, she has specialist served as an independent non-executive
Chartered Bank in December 2022. knowledge in investment banking, mergers director of Nordea Bank Abp.
and acquisitions and capital raising.
External appointments Robin is
Career Robin spent over 25 years at an independent board member of
JP Morgan Chase in a number of senior Ashurst LLP and a member of the
executive positions. She has valuable advisory board at Aon PLC.
executive and non-executive experience
across global markets and has considerable
Committees Ri S R
understanding of regulatory and governance
issues. From 2019 to 2021, she served as a
non-executive director on the board of
M&G plc. In January 2014, Robin joined
Shareholder Executive, which later became
UK Government Investments (UKGI), as
a non-executive board member until
140 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Directors’ report Management Team
Roel joined the Group in November 2021 he oversaw operations, technology and the
Roel Louwhoff (58)
as Chief Digital, Technology & Innovation broader transformation agenda. During his
Chief Technology, Operations and
Officer, before becoming the Chief seven years in this role, Roel led the successful
Transformation Officer
Transformation, Technology & Operations digital transformation of ING, seen by many
Officer from 1 April 2022. He spearheads the as a trailblazer in digitising financial services.
Bank’s Technology and Operations strategy Before ING, Roel spent 10 years at British
and the development of its technology Telecom (BT), latterly as CEO of BT-Operate
systems, business resilience framework and based in the UK. At BT, he redefined the
infrastructure which support its clients and technology and operational approach and
employees globally and leads the innovation led the BT communication side of the 2012
agenda of the Bank. Roel is also responsible Olympics before applying that learning in
for leading bank-wide transformation, which delivering turn-key digital and infrastructure
includes the digital transformation of the solutions for major exhibition and sporting
Bank into an agile, digital and future-focused events.
organisation.
External appointments None.
Career Prior to joining Standard Chartered,
Roel was Chief Operations and
Transformation Officer at ING Bank, where
Tracey has been the Group Head Conduct, director of the Prudential Regulation
Tracey McDermott, CBE (54)
Financial Crime and Compliance since Authority from September 2015 to June 2016.
Group Head Conduct,
January 2019. Prior to joining the FCA, Tracey worked as a
Financial Crime and Compliance
lawyer in private practice, having spent time
Career Tracey originally joined Standard
in law firms in the UK, USA and Brussels. In
Chartered as Group Head of Corporate,
2016, Tracey received a CBE for her services
Public and Regulatory Affairs in March 2017,
to financial service consumers and markets.
subsequently adding Brand and Marketing
She is a trustee of the Standard Chartered
to her portfolio in December 2017 and
Foundation.
Compliance in March 2018. Prior to joining the
bank, Tracey served as Acting Chief Executive External appointments Tracey chairs the
of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Net Zero Banking Alliance, is a member of
from September 2015 to June 2016. She joined the International Regulatory Strategy Group
the then Financial Services Authority (FSA) Council and chairs the Conduct and Ethics
in 2001 where she held a number of senior Committee of the Fixed Income, Currencies
roles, including Director of Supervision and and Commodities Markets Standards Board.
Authorisations, and Director of Enforcement She is also a non-executive director of 25x25
and Financial Crime. Tracey also served as a Limited and a Member of the Management
Board Member of the FSA from April 2013, as Board of Cambridge Endowment for
a member of the Financial Policy Committee Research in Finance.
of the Bank of England, and as non-executive
Sandie Okoro joined the Bank as Group influential person of African and African
Sandie Okoro, OBE (59)
General Counsel in April 2022. In the role, Caribbean heritage by Powerlist (2023).
Group General Counsel
she leads the Bank’s Legal, Group Corporate
Sandie received a lifetime achievement
Secretariat and Shared Investigative
award from the UK Black Solicitors Network
Services functions.
(2016), was named one of the Power 100
Career Sandie is a pre-eminent lawyer, having Women by City A.M., 100 Women to Watch
served as General Counsel and Senior Vice by Female FTSE Board and received an OBE
President, and Vice President for Compliance, for services to Diversity in International
at the World Bank Group. Prior to joining the Finance in 2024.
World Bank, Sandie was General Counsel for
External appointments Sandie was
HSBC Global Asset Management and Global
appointed inaugural Chair of the UK-based
General Counsel at Barings. Sandie is an
charity Women of the World Foundation in
Honorary Bencher of Middle Temple in the
June 2021, she received an honorary lifetime
United Kingdom (2018) and was named
Emeritus membership of the Law Societies’
one of the Upstanding 100 Leading Ethnic
Compact and Forum for Sustainable
Minority Executives (2016), Top 20 Global
Development Goal 16 in June 2022, and
General Counsel (2019) by the Financial Times,
she is a Governor of the Royal Shakespeare
and was recognised as Britain’s 10th most
Company.
Sadia Ricke joined the Bank in February 2023. She was appointed Group Country Head and
Sadia Ricke (53)
Head of Coverage and Investment Banking
Group Chief Risk Officer, Career Sadia has a broad range of financial
for the UK in 2017. In 2019, Sadia became
director of Standard Chartered Bank and risk experience and a thorough
Deputy Chief Risk Officer and then Group
understanding of our footprint markets.
Chief Risk Officer in January 2021.
She joined the Bank from Société Générale,
External appointments Sadia became a
where she started in 1994 in the Financial
member of the International Financial Risk
Institutions Credit department. She gained
Institute Foundation Board in February
more than 13 years of structured finance
2023 and was appointed as Vice-Chair in
experience in the Natural Resources and
March 2023.
Energy Finance division where she was
Co-Deputy Head, a position she held until
2010. She then became Head of Credit Risk
for SG CIB in Paris, before moving to Hong
Kong to take on the role of Head of Global
Finance for Asia Pacific in January 2015.
144 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Corporate
governance
Governance Strategy
This section provides an insight
into key Board items and activities
covered during the year, as well External Key areas of Risk
as the structure of the Board, its environment Board discussion management
and activities
committees, and its meetings.
during 2023
People, culture Financials and
and values performance
Shareholder
and stakeholder
engagement
Code compliance
The directors are pleased to confirm that the Company The Group confirms that it has adopted a code of conduct
continued to comply with the UK Corporate Governance regarding directors’ securities transactions on terms no less
Code 2018 (UK Code) and the Hong Kong Corporate exacting than required by Appendix C3 of the Hong Kong
Governance Code contained in Appendix C1 of the Hong Listing Rules.
Kong Listing Rules (HK Code) for the whole of the year
Having made specific enquiry of all directors, the Group
under review.
confirms that all directors have complied with the required
We share insights into how governance operates within standards of the adopted code of conduct.
the Group and how we have applied the principles set
To the extent applicable, information required by
out in the UK Code and HK Code in the pages that follow paragraphs 13(2) (c), (d), (f), (h) and (i) of Schedule 7 of
and in particular on page 217. Copies of the UK Code and the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups
(Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 is available in
the HK Code can be found at frc.org.uk and hkex.com.hk
Other disclosures on pages 217 to 228
respectively.
Our stakeholders, their interests: driving commerce and prosperity through our unique diversity
The Board is conscious of the need to create and maintain positive stakeholder relationships and spends significant time
interacting with them to better understand their views, as well as the opportunities, challenges and the Group’s impact
across our diverse markets.
These relationships were considered extensively during Board and Committee meetings and in decision-making, and
also in the individual and collective engagements that took place throughout the year. Examples of this can be found
in the stakeholder engagement section on pages 157 to 161, within the feature sections on the following pages and on
pages 54 to 64.
Clients Regulators and Investors Suppliers Society Employees
governments
Read more Read more Read more Read more Read more Read more
on page 55 on page 57 on page 57 on page 58 on page 59 on page 60
Directors’
report
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 145
Directors’ report Corporate governance
Key areas of Board discussion and activities during 2023
Strategy
SSppoottlliigghhtt
• Reviewed the Group’s strategy over two days at a Board and LDirvievrinpgo otrl aFnosoftobramlla Ctilounb
senior management offsite, discussing progress, possible
enhancements and confirming that it remains appropriate s w p it o h n S so C r s V h e i n p t r u e r n e e s wal
• Reviewed and approved the 2024–2028 Corporate Plan
as a basis for preparation of the 2024 budget, receiving SC Ventures, the Group’s innovation, fintech investment and
confirmation from the Group Chief Risk Officer that Tvehnet Gurreosu apr amn, nwoausn sceetd u ap fino u2r0-y18e aarn edx nteonws ieonnc toom thpeairs smeas ian
the plan is aligned to the Enterprise Risk Management sppoortnfsooliro a ogf r3e6e mveenntut rweist ha cLrivoessrp foouorl Fthoeomtbeasl:l DCilgubit a(Ll AFCss)e atns,d
Framework and the Group Risk Appetite Statement LSFuCst aWinoambeilint yin & J Iunlcy l2u0si2o2n. ,T Ohnel iBnoea Ercdo dnioscmuys s&e dLi faensdty rleev aienwde d
• Reviewed and scrutinised the strategic and operational tShMeE p &ro Wpoosreldd Tprlaadnes. tIon r2e0n2e3w, t hthee G loronugp-s ctoamndpinlegte rdel athteio nship
performance of the business across client segments, product
arensdtr ufucltlyu rsiunpgp aonrdte rdin cgofnenticniunign go ft hSeC pVaernttnuerressh’ iapc tthivriotiuegsh.
groups and regions, which included details of their priorities,
tWo itthhein e tnhde oGf rtohuep 2, 0SC26 V/e2n7 tsueraesso isn d, irnivcilnugd ian gc uinltcurreea osfe d
progress, opportunities and response to current events.
iinnvneosvtamtieonnt biny LsFcaCl iWngo umpe inn.t LraFpCr iesn ae gulroshbiapl,l yfi nretnecohw ned
This included deep dives into the following areas:
feonogtabgaellm cleunbt, ,w ainthd mcoallnayb foorlalotwinegr sw aitchr othsse o buar nmka’s rckleietns tins.
ASCsi aV,e Anftruicreas a isn cdo tnhtein Muiindgd lteo E bausitld. a sustainable ecosystem
– Information and Cybersecurity
Tofh vee Bnotuarreds r aecnodg pnaisretnde trhsi fso ar st hae u bnaiqnuke a anndd a vcacleulaebralet ing
– Private Banking otrpapnosfroturmniatyt itoon h ine lbpa dnekliivnegr. our narrative and Stands.
– SC Ventures C G o iv n e t n in t u h i e n g si z to e i o n f v t e h s e t i S n C b V ra e n n d tu a re n s d p b o u rt s f in o e lio ss , t m he a r B k o e a ti r n d g where
appropriate is an important part of the Group’s Corporate
– Hong Kong, South Korea, and the ASEAN region considered how best to articulate its value both to the
Plan.
organisation and externally to investors. The Board
• Received and discussed regular corporate development
scrutinised management’s plans in respect to SC Ventures’
updates
current and future business model. The Group will focus on
• Discussed and reviewed the Group’s sustainability strategy putting Ventures in a position where it would help transform
• Discussed and reviewed the Group’s Transformation, the core bank.
Technology & Operations strategy
• Received updates on the Group’s investment in its associate Stakeholders
China Bohai Bank and on real estate investments in China
• Approved the sale of its global aviation finance leasing Clients Employees
business
• Monitored the sales of its subsidiaries in Angola, Cameroon, Investors
The Gambia, and Sierra Leone, and its Consumer, Private &
Business Banking (CPBB) business in Tanzania
Risk management
SSppoottlliigghhtt
• Received and discussed briefings from management on BReluseo lSvkayb Tilhitiynking session
ICS matters, approved a revised ICS Risk Appetite and
completed training on the topic facilitated by Robert Zoellick,
• Approved the Operational Resilience Self-assessment Resolvability was a fundamental part of the Board’s
aag efnodar fmor thee rye Par.r Tehesy irdevieewnedt, cohafll etnhgeed a nd
• Reviewed work on projects to replace and upgrade data
approved enhancements to the updated Group’s
centres in Asia
WResoolvarblidlity ABssaesnsmken at Renpdort pCrohvidaedi rto othfe Boanuk r
• Discussed macroeconomic headwinds and tailwinds as both
of England in February 2022 and approved the Group’s
risks and opportunities for the Group
IRnesotlevarbnilitya dtisicolosnurea plu bAlishdedv inis Juoner 2y0 2C2. Ion Juulyn 20c2i2l,
• Reviewed and discussed risk reports from the Group Chief the Board attended a teach-in session of the Master
Risk Officer Resolution Playbook. It also participated in a Resolution
The Board Risk and Audit Committees jointly attended a
• Reviewed and approved the draft Group’s Resolvability simulation exercise with senior leaders and experts in
Blue Sky Thinking session entitled the “Forward-Looking
Assessment, delegating the final approval to the Board Risk December 2022 to role play a hypothetical scenario that
Geopolitical Agenda”. Robert Zoellick led the session by
Committee could arise if Standard Chartered were to enter resolution.
introducing three key meta-trends (technology innovation,
• Engaged with the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) on
demographics and the environment) and three key
the findings of their 2023 Periodic Summary Meeting Letter Further information can be found on page 173
constituents (consumers, workers and investors). Drawing
• Reviewed the FCA’s periodic Firm Evaluation Letter upon analyses prepared by our Group Regulatory and
• Assessed progress in continuing to strengthen the Group’s Public Affairs team, committee members considered the
risk culture interaction of meta-trends, key constituents and policy
• Approved the Risk Appetite for 2024 which included a levers. Committee members then analysed how key policy
consideration of principal risks and regulatory levers can be used in response to pressures
created by the meta-trends and constituents.
• Approved the renewal of the Group’s insurance policies for
2023/2024
Stakeholders
• Approved material changes to the Enterprise Risk
Management Framework
Clients Suppliers
Regulators and Society
governments
Employees
Investors
146 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 147
Directors’
report
Key areas of Board discussion and activities during 2023 continued
Financials and performance
Spotlight
• Monitored the Group’s financial performance Dividend payments and
• Approved the 2022 full year and 2023 half year results
share buy-backs
• Monitored and assessed the strength of the Group’s
capital and liquidity positions
• Considered the carrying value of the Group’s investments In 2023, the Board approved two dividend payments and two
ordinary share buy-back programmes. As part of its decision-
• Considered the Group’s approach to capital management
making process, the Board noted the importance of approving
and returns
distributions and other capital management activities within
• Approved a 2022 final dividend and 2023 interim dividend an appropriately prudent framework. Assurance was also
• Approved two share buy-back programmes sought from management regarding the protection of the
Group’s capital position and its ability to execute planned
• Received half yearly updates on, and discussed, the
investment activities for future growth. By November 2023,
Group’s major investment programmes in 2023
the two share buy-back programmes initiated during the year
• Received half yearly updates on, and discussed, investor successfully completed approximately $2 billion in shareholder
relations matters returns for 2023, complemented by a total dividend payment
• Approved the Group’s 2022 Country-by-Country Reporting of $569 million. This progress brings us closer to our goal of
disclosures achieving at least $5 billion in shareholder returns by 2024.
Stakeholders
Clients Regulators and Investors
governments
People, culture and values
Spotlight
• Approved the Group’s 2022 Modern Slavery Statement Culture of Excellence
• Approved the Group’s refreshed Code of Conduct and Ethics
• Discussed progress made against the Group’s people The Board considered the Group’s People Strategy and
strategy and culture aspirations discussed the extent to which objectives could be
• Discussed aspects of the Group’s global employee introduced to better measure the transformation of the
engagement survey, My Voice organisation. They discussed with management the
• Received updates on the progression and evolution Group’s culture aspiration, which is to encourage a culture of
of the Management Team’s and senior management’s ambition, action and accountability, improve operational
succession plans following a number of recent efficiency and drive client centricity through a culture of
appointments high performance and execution. The Board noted the
• Discussed the Group’s diversity and inclusion initiatives importance of the People Strategy to the success of the
• Reviewed the Board Diversity Policy transformation of the business, and ultimately the delivery
of the Group’s strategic objectives.
• Approved changes to the Group’s operational
resilience strategy
Stakeholders
• Reviewed an annual report update on the operation and
effectiveness of the Group’s Speaking Up programme
Clients Employees Society
External environment
Spotlight
• Received updates on the macroeconomic headwinds Global market trends
and tailwinds in the global economy, including an
assessment of the impact on the key drivers of the
Group’s financial performance The Board invited a number of internal experts and guest
speakers to attend Board dinners providing important and
• Received internal and external briefings and input
specialist insight and context to the Board discussion on a
across a range of subjects, including:
variety of matters. Geopolitical uncertainties and global
– global market trends
market trends were among the topics which were covered
– the global macro impact of geopolitical uncertainties
this year.
in the Middle East
– China’s emergence from the COVID pandemic
Stakeholders
– Russia-Ukraine war
– China/ US tensions Clients Suppliers
– societal and business implications of global
demographic trends Regulators and Society
governments
– strategic insights into global markets, geopolitics and
policy Investors Employees
– regulatory developments and updates
Directors’ report Corporate governance
Key areas of Board discussion and activities during 2023 continued
Governance
Spotlight
• Monitored developments and trends in corporate Appointment of the Group
governance, focusing on changes proposed by the UK
Government, FRC and Hong Kong Stock Exchange Chief Financial Officer
• Noted and/or approved changes to the membership of the
Board’s committees, including the appointment of Linda Yueh
as the new Committee Chair of the CSC In 2023, the GNC led the search process for a successor
to Andy Halford as GCFO. The GNC oversaw a
• Received reports at each scheduled meeting from the Board
committee chairs on key areas of focus for the committees robust search and assessment process, conducted in
and quarterly updates from Standard Chartered Bank conjunction with executive search firm Russell Reynolds,
(Hong Kong) Limited (SCBHK) and its Audit and Board Risk which resulted in some exceptionally talented internal
committees and external candidates being interviewed and
• Undertook training on directors’ duties and the governance considered. Diego De Giorgi emerged as the preferred
landscape choice, and joined the Group as GCFO Designate in
• Discussed and reviewed the independence, performance and September 2023. He received a thorough induction
annual re-election of the non-executive directors and training programme, meeting colleagues
• Approved the re-appointment of the independent adviser to and other stakeholders from around the Group’s
the Board on cyber security and cyber threats footprint. Following regulatory approval, Diego’s
• Approved the replacement of the independent adviser to the appointment as GCFO took effect on 3 January 2024.
Board on financial crime with an annual externally-facilitated
session on financial crime risk
• Authorised potential conflicts of interest relating to directors’
external appointments Stakeholders
• Discussed the observations and themes arising from the 2023
internal Board and committees’ effectiveness review ahead of
Clients Suppliers
approving the 2024 Action Plan
• Reviewed, and where appropriate, approved updates to the Regulators and
Society
Terms of Reference for each Board committee governments
• Further developed meaningful linkages between the Board
and its subsidiaries at chair, board and committee level Investors Employees
Shareholder and
Spotlight
stakeholder engagement
Stewardship Event
• Engaged with investors, held meetings with brokers, discussed
the views of institutional shareholders
The Group Chairman welcomed external investors
• Discussed and reviewed the approach to engaging investors
to our annual stewardship event in November
and other relevant stakeholders ahead of the 2023 AGM
2023, alongside the chairs of the Board Audit and
• Engaged with clients, shareholders and regulators
Remuneration Committees. The event took a hybrid
• Engaged with colleagues around the business throughout
format and was attended by investors representing
the year
43 per cent of the Group’s shareholders by value.
• Hosting a stewardship event, with a focus on strategy,
The Group Chairman provided an update regarding
including sustainability
the Group’s strategy, including with respect to
• Received bi-annual updates from Investor Relations, including
share price and valuation analysis, market engagement and sustainability, and was supplemented by opening
ownership analysis and sell-side sentiment remarks from the Remuneration Committee Chair. The
Audit Committee Chair also discussed key updates on
the activities of the Audit and Board Risk Committees
during the year. This was followed by a Q&A session.
Stakeholders
Investors
For a detailed overview of our strategy see pages 24 and 25
148 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Board and committee structure: decisions, responsibilities and delegation of authority
Standard Chartered PLC The Board sets the Company’s purpose, values and strategy. Under the Board’s Terms
of Reference, it is collectively responsible to shareholders for the governance, strategic
direction and performance of the Company and the delivery of sustainable value within
a framework of prudent and effective controls to which the Company’s culture is aligned.
The Board is responsible for understanding the views and interests of key stakeholders and
for considering those views and interests during Board discussions and decision-making.
It is responsible for overseeing the Group’s conduct and affairs and for promoting its long-
term sustainable success.
The Board discharges its responsibilities directly or, in order to ensure effective independent
oversight and stewardship, delegates specified responsibilities to its committees.
Detail of how the Board fulfilled its responsibilities in 2023, as well as key topics discussed
and considered by the Board committees, can be found in this Directors’ report.
Biographies for each director are set out on pages 137 to 141
Audit Committee The Audit Committee is responsible for oversight and review of Read more
matters relating to financial reporting, the Group’s internal on page 162
controls, including internal financial controls, and the work
undertaken by the Conduct, Financial Crime & Compliance,
Group Internal Audit and the Group’s Statutory Auditor, Ernst &
Young LLP (EY).
Board Risk Committee The Board Risk Committee is responsible for oversight and review Read more
of the Group’s Risk Appetite Statement, the appropriateness on page 168
and effectiveness of the Group’s risk management systems and
the principal risks, including Climate Risk, to the Group’s business.
Furthermore, it considers the implications of material regulatory
change proposals and due diligence on material acquisitions
and disposals.
Culture and Sustainability The Culture and Sustainability Committee is responsible for Read more
Committee oversight and review of the Group’s culture and sustainability on page 174
priorities.
Governance and The Governance and Nomination Committee is responsible for Read more
Nomination Committee oversight and review of Board and executive succession, overall on page 177
Board effectiveness and corporate governance issues.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is responsible for oversight and Read more
review of remuneration, share plans and other incentives. on page 182
Group Chief The Board delegates authority for the operational management of the Group’s business
Executive to the Group Chief Executive for further delegation by him in respect of matters that are
necessary for the effective day-to-day running and management of the business. The Board
holds the Group Chief Executive accountable in discharging his delegated responsibilities.
Management Team The Management Team comprises the Group Chief Executive and the Group Chief
Financial Officer, regional CEOs, client segment CEOs, and our global function heads.
It has responsibility for executing the strategy. Details of the Group’s Management Team
can be found on pages 142 to 144.
Terms of Reference for the Board and each committee are in place to provide clarity over where responsibility for decision-
making lies. These are reviewed annually against industry best practice and corporate governance provisions and guidance,
including the PRA Supervisory Statement on Board Responsibilities (as amended).
With the exception of the Governance and Nomination Committee (where the Group Chairman is its Chair) all of the Board
committees are composed of INEDs who bring a diversity of skills, experience and knowledge to the discussion.
Written Terms of Reference for the Board and its committees can be viewed at sc.com/termsofreference
Directors’
report
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 149
Board composition, roles and attendance in 2023
The Group Chairman is committed to The Board is composed of a majority of independent non-
ensuring optimal Board effectiveness. executive directors who provide an independent perspective,
constructive challenge, and monitor the performance and
A key mechanism to drive this is the
delivery of the strategy within the Risk Appetite and controls
appropriate composition and balance set by the Board.
of the Board.
Detail regarding Board diversity can be found within the Governance
and Nomination Committee report on pages 177 to 181
Group Chairman Executive directors
Group Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Chief Financial Officer
José Viñals Bill Winters Andy Halford
Responsibilities Responsibilities Responsibilities
Responsible for leading the Board, ensuring Responsible for the management of Responsible for Finance, Corporate Treasury,
its effectiveness in all aspects of its role all aspects of the Group’s businesses, Strategy, Group Corporate Development,
and developing the Group’s culture with developing the strategy in conjunction Group Investor Relations, Property and Supply
the Group Chief Executive. Promotes high with the Group Chairman and the Board Chain Management functions.
standards of integrity and governance and leading its implementation.
As announced on 21 December 2023, Diego
across the Group and ensures effective
De Giorgi succeeded Andy as Group Chief
communication and understanding
Financial Officer on 3 January 2024.
between the Board, management,
shareholders and wider stakeholders.
Attendance Attendance Attendance
AGM Y AGM Y AGM Y
Scheduled 8/8 Scheduled 8/8 Scheduled 8/8
Ad hoc 1/1 Ad hoc 1/1 Ad hoc 1/1
Independent non‑executive directors
Senior Independent Director Attendance
Maria Ramos AGM Scheduled Ad hoc
Responsibilities
Provides a sounding board for the Group David Conner Y 8/8 1/1 INEDs who
Chairman and discusses concerns that stepped down in
are unable to be resolved through the Gay Huey Evans, CBE Y 8/8 1/1 2023
normal channels or where such contact
would be inappropriate with shareholders Christine Hodgson
Phil Rivett Y 8/8 1/1
and other stakeholders. Chairs the and Jasmine
Governance and Nomination Committee Whitbread stepped
when considering succession of the Group David Tang Y 8/8 1/1 down from the
Chairman. Is available to shareholders Board on 31 January
if they have concerns that cannot be Shirish Apte Y 8/8 1/1 2023 and 3 May
resolved or for which the normal channels 2023 respectively.
would be inappropriate. Can be contacted Robin Lawther, CBE Y 8/8 1/1 No Board meetings
via the Group Company Secretary at took place in 2023
1 Basinghall Avenue, London EC2V 5DD. prior to Christine
Jackie Hunt Y 8/8 1/1
leaving the Board.
Attendance
AGM Y Jasmine Whitbread N/A 3/3 1/1 INEDs who
Scheduled 8/8 joined in 2023
Ad hoc 1/1 Linda Yueh, CBE Y 8/8 1/1
Linda Yueh joined
the Board on
Carlson Tong Y 8/8 1/1 1 January 2023.
Board committee roles and attendance The biographies of each director are set The roles of the Group Chairman and
can be found in the committee sections out on pages 137 to 141 Group Chief Executive are distinct from
starting from page 162. one another and are clearly defined in
Linda Yueh joined the Board on 1 January 2023.
detailed role descriptions which can be
Further information can be found on page 139
viewed at sc.com/roledescriptions
Directors’
report
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 151
Directors’ report Corporate governance
Director induction Ongoing development plans
Linda Yueh joined the Board on 1 January 2023. Her Continuous training and development beyond a director’s
experience can be found in her biography on page 139. induction plan is essential for maintaining a highly engaged,
Along with Shirish Apte, Robin Lawther and Jackie Hunt, who effective and well-informed Board. Ongoing development
were all appointed in 2022, the new directors were given a plans also help ensure directors lead with integrity and
comprehensive induction programme, tailored to meet each promote the Group’s culture, purpose and values.
director’s individual level of experience and expertise.
Mandatory learning and training are important elements of
Diego De Giorgi was appointed as Group Chief Financial directors’ fitness and propriety assessments as required under
Officer on 3 January 2024, following the retirement of the UK Senior Managers and Certification Regime. During
Andy Halford on 2 January 2024. Diego received in-depth the year, all directors received a combination of mandatory
handovers from Andy, which included a period of shadowing learning and training, internal and external briefings,
from September 2023 to January 2024. As well as numerous presentations from guest speakers, and papers on a wide
tailored, individual training sessions, Diego also attended range of topics to ensure the directors are well informed and
formal training sessions on topics including Directors’ Duties that the Board remains highly effective. The table below gives
(on 20 September 2023), Climate Risk (on 28 September 2023), further detail on who received these briefings.
Trading Activity Wind-Down Governance (on 28 September
In 2023, Board members received briefings from and engaged
2023), Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) litigation
with leading diplomats, former national security advisers,
(on 30 November 2023), ICS Horizon Scanning (on 5 December
former leaders of international organisations and economists
2023) and Directors’ Duties applicable to directors of Hong
on topics including China’s emergence from the COVID
Kong-listed companies (on 14 December 2023). Following
pandemic, the evolving geopolitical landscape in the Middle
his relevant training provided by a firm of solicitors on
East, and the global macroeconomic environment.
14 December 2023, Diego confirmed his understanding of
the obligations as a director of a listed issuer pursuant to The Board committee members also received specific
Rule 3.09D of the Hong Kong Listing Rules. training relevant to the work of their respective committees.
In 2023, the Board Risk Committee received training on topics
The Group Company Secretary supports new directors
including: Threat Scenario-led Risk Assessment, Trading
as they undertake their induction programmes, which are
Activity Wind-Down Governance, Operational Risk and the
typically completed within the first six to twelve months of
implications of Basel 3.1.
their appointment. The induction programmes are regularly
reviewed and take into account directors’ feedback to ensure The Group Chairman reviews with each director their training
continuous development and improvement. and development needs both in real time and as part of
the annual performance cycle. Where it is recognised that
Progress against induction programmes the Board or individual directors need further training or
The Governance and Nomination Committee is responsible development in key areas, additional sessions are arranged
for periodically reviewing the induction programme of all with subject matter experts.
new INEDs, to understand the level of progress made and
to consider where any areas of additional focus might be
required. The Committee is satisfied that all new INEDs have
made good progress completing induction work, both in
London and as part of overseas Board visits to our markets.
2023 director training overview
Directors’ duties ICS Horizon
and regulatory Digital Scanning
Induction1 updates assets Climate Risk Emerging Risks
José Viñals N/A
Bill Winters N/A
Andy Halford N/A
Shirish Apte2
David Conner N/A
Gay Huey Evans, CBE N/A
Jackie Hunt2
Robin Lawther, CBE2
Maria Ramos N/A
Phil Rivett N/A
David Tang N/A
Carlson Tong N/A
Jasmine Whitbread3 N/A N/A N/A N/A
Linda Yueh, CBE2
1 Applicable to directors who received induction training during 2023 Director attended the session
2 Shirish Apte, Robin Lawther, Jackie Hunt and Linda Yueh joined the Board on
Director was unable to attend the session but received any accompanying
4 May 2022, 1 July 2022, 1 October 2022 and 1 January 2023 respectively
material and had opportunities to raise questions and observations with the
3 Jasmine Whitbread stepped down from the Board on 3 May 2023 Group Chairman and Group Company Secretary
152 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Directors’ report Corporate governance
Spotlight
Interview with Dr Linda Yueh
An insight into one of our new INEDs
Dr Linda Yueh
Independent Non-Executive Director
Q. What drew you to Standard Chartered In terms of culture, our priorities include embedding a high-
and have your initial impressions aligned with performance culture, whereby our people can excel and do so
your experiences as an INED one year on? in prudent ways. Diversity and inclusion are essential building
blocks which will go a long way in ensuring that our employees
A. One of the key things that attracted me to Standard
can succeed and thrive. Another key component to driving a
Chartered was the Group’s culture and its people. Prior to
healthy culture is through embedding valued behaviours, such
my appointment, I had a number of discussions with several
as risk awareness, into the Group’s culture.
directors, including the Group Chairman, who offered insights
into serving on the Board of a global financial institution. I In terms of sustainability, our key priorities include achieving
was particularly impressed with their willingness to listen and the Group’s net zero transition pathway, with particular focus
engage collaboratively in constructive discourse over issues of being placed on ensuring that the milestones are clearly
importance to the Group. One year on, I’m pleased to say that defined, measured and delivered. In addition, biodiversity and
I am working with a great group of people from a variety of other emerging issues around safeguarding our planet will
backgrounds, who possess strong skills and industry-leading also be in focus in the coming years.
experience in their respective fields. In my role as Chair of the
Culture and Sustainability Committee (CSC), I am able to Q. How important is a company’s culture to
actively engage with the issues around culture that are central you and what are your views on the culture at
to a people business. This has been particularly rewarding. Standard Chartered?
A. Standard Chartered is a people business, so culture is
Q. How effective have you found your
central to its success and ability to contribute positively to our
induction programme in preparing you as an
stakeholders, including clients, investors, employees and wider
INED and for the Standard Chartered Board
society. The Group is a global institution with footprints in
and committee discussions? over 52 markets, so it is particularly important that INEDs and
A. The induction programme, designed to be undertaken executive directors continually engage with our stakeholders
over several months, is extensive and well-designed. As my and always remain sensitive to the cultural and business
knowledge of the Group grew, my induction meetings became context in which particular issues arise in individual markets. In
a mixture of introductions and substantive discussions, which the year I’ve been on the Board, I have been impressed by the
worked well. I met with various employees and stakeholders focus on culture and the thoughtfulness of the Group in this
around the Group, which provided a great opportunity to area that is not straightforward to manage.
listen to, and understand, a number of different aspects of the
bank. The induction programme also included joint sessions Q. As an INED, how do you build connections and
with other INEDs who joined the Board in 2022. These joint maintain relationships with our key stakeholders?
induction sessions were extremely helpful, as we learned
A. Delivering for our stakeholders is an area I have placed
from each other’s perspectives and got to know each other
great focus on. I am pleased that the CSC has been refocused
better through the process. In addition, I joined part of the BRC
on supporting the Board’s engagement notably with our
meetings as an observer, on discussions covering topics such
employees, communities, suppliers and shareholders. For
as reputation and sustainability risks, which dovetail into the
instance, our relationship with our colleagues has been
work of the CSC. I also travelled with the Board to Hong Kong,
strengthened by honing our Board workforce engagement
Seoul and Singapore and undertook part of my induction in
sessions this year. During our workforce engagement sessions,
these overseas locations. Market visits are a helpful part of the
which regularly take place as part of the Board’s overseas
induction programme and provide important commercial and
market visits as well as in the Group’s London headquarters,
regulatory context, which helped me to better understand the
INEDs will spend time with colleagues to understand the
global nature of Standard Chartered’s business.
areas in which the business excels, and also the areas where
Q. As the new chair of the Culture and the My Voice survey scores are below average. With those
Sustainability Committee, what do you see as insights, the CSC and the Board can have informed follow-up
discussions, where we can reflect and act upon what we have
its key priorities over the next five years?
heard to continually improve the Group’s operations.
A. It is a privilege to chair the CSC and to help define the
priorities of the Group in areas which lie at the heart of
our organisation and inform everything that we do.
154 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 155
Directors’
report
Board effectiveness The 2023 Board and committees’ effectiveness review was
conducted internally, facilitated by the Group Company
Secretary, and in accordance with the UK Code.
Progress against the 2023 Action Plan
The 2023 Action Plan set out a number of actions to be
achieved following the externally facilitated Board evaluation
conducted in 2022. The 2023 Action Plan was regularly
reviewed during the year and good progress had been made
against many of the actions as evidenced by this year’s
internally facilitated Board effectiveness review.
Key observations from the 2023 internal effectiveness review
• The Board remains effective at testing and • The Board engaged well with a range of key
shaping the Group’s strategy. stakeholders at different levels.
• Board meetings had focused well on business • The Board agenda had accommodated the
opportunities with a good level of discussion impact of emerging geopolitical vulnerabilities
and challenge, which helped to set strategic and the evolving macroeconomic landscape.
priorities.
• The management of the transition of new
• The Board has a comprehensive understanding INEDs on the Board had been handled well.
of the Group’s principal risks and explores them
extensively.
2024 Action Plan
• Review the length and focus of Board papers, • Enhance measurement of progress on the
ensuring a focus on key points for the Board Group’s engagement with its key stakeholders.
to understand, discuss, challenge and agree
• Continue to enhance the sustainability aspect
on actions.
of the Board’s education programme.
• Evaluate the balance of topics on the Board
agenda to maximise time allocation and
focus on key strategic items, challenges and
commercial opportunities.
Internal evaluation process
Review approach Questionnaires Evaluation Findings shared with
agreed completed and report committee Chairs
and committees
Findings discussed with Board discussion and agreed
the Group Chairman and Action Plan for 2024
Governance and Nomination
Committee
Stakeholder Ensuring authentic engagement
across our markets
engagement
The Board recognises the importance of stakeholder
consideration and interaction. It forms a crucial part of Board
decisions and discussions, as well as the review of our purpose,
values and strategy.
Investors Clients Suppliers
Board activities led to a number of invaluable opportunities to
engage with stakeholders across the Group’s diverse network,
including those identified on the following pages. Directors
did not just engage collectively with stakeholders, but also
individually. The Remuneration, Culture and Sustainability,
Regulators and Board Risk and Audit Committees also engaged directly with
Society Employees
governments employees. Informal and formal sessions with stakeholders
across our footprint help provide INEDs and independent
adviser members with a comprehensive understanding of the
Group’s market operations, implementation of strategy, and
the external and internal impact of the Group’s activities.
Further detail regarding the Board’s engagement with our
stakeholders can be found on the following pages. Detail
regarding how Board committees and their members
engaged with stakeholders can be found in the committee
report sections starting from page 162.
Chairman and INED travel across our markets
The Chairman and
INEDs, either together or
individually, visited
a range of markets.
3
2
Europe and 1
4
the Americas 12 11
1. Germany 8 9
2. Poland 15
3. UK 5 6 13 14
4. US 10
Africa and 7
Middle East
5. Ghana
6. Kenya 3. London, United 9. Hong Kong, China 10. Jakarta, Indonesia 12. Seoul,
7. South Africa Kingdom The Board and In June 2023, the Board South Korea
8. UAE In September 2023, the committees held their travelled to Jakarta. The Board held its
Board and committees meetings in Hong Kong in During this visit, the Board November meetings
held their meetings in March 2023. During this took the opportunity to in Seoul. The week’s
Asia London. The Board was visit, the Board met with meet with a wide range programme began with
joined by UK-based clients, colleagues, senior of stakeholders, including a global townhall, with
9. China, including
colleagues for an informal government officials and informal discussions colleagues around the
Hong Kong top talent lunch at which regulators. An informal with senior leaders, world tuning in virtually.
10. Indonesia colleagues shared their top talent lunch was other colleagues at The Board also hosted
11. Japan experiences of working held where the Board the bank as well as top a talent lunch and met
12. South Korea at Standard Chartered. met with employees government officials. with colleagues based
The Board also heard from Hong Kong The Board also hosted in Korea. As part of the
13. Malaysia
from other UK colleagues representing different an employee townhall trip, the Board met with
14. Singapore
through the employee functions and discussed and concluded the visit clients, top government
15. Vietnam townhall, held to mark the goals, challenges with a client dinner officials, and local
170 years of Standard and opportunities of the celebrating 160 year of regulators, and engaged
Chartered’s presence in business. The Board also Standard Chartered’s with local entrepreneurs
the UK. Board members took the opportunity to presence in Indonesia. for a community
also met with the UK PRA, visit Mox Bank, the Group’s engagement session.
and Hong Kong Trade virtual bank in Hong Kong
Development Council and hosted a client dinner.
in London.
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 157
Directors’
report
Directors’ report Corporate governance
The Board’s engagement with investors
Our approach Institutional shareholders
Aiming to deliver robust returns and long-term, The Group maintains a diverse, high-quality and
sustainable value for shareholders is of key importance predominantly institutional shareholder base. The Investor
to the Board. We continuously reflect on how the Board Relations team has primary responsibility for managing
engages with our investors, openly seeking feedback and day-to-day communications with these shareholders
reviewing previous activities. We believe this strengthens and provides support to the Group Chairman, Group
engagements and helps support the Board’s focus on Chief Executive, Group Chief Financial Officer, other
developing open and trusted relationships with investors. Board members and senior management in conducting
a comprehensive engagement programme.
During the year, we maintained a comprehensive
programme of engagement, including with investor Presentation material and webcast transcripts are made available
on the Group’s website and can be viewed at sc.com/investors
advisory bodies and credit rating agencies, and provided
updates on progress made to transform our business for
improved returns.
Investor stewardship event
The Group Chairman and other Board directors had direct The Group Chairman hosted a stewardship event in
contact with investors and advisory voting bodies during November 2023 alongside the chairs of the Board
the year, and received regular updates from the Investor Audit and Remuneration committees. The Group
Relations team, including reports on market developments. Chairman provided an update regarding the Group’s
The Group Chairman, as part of his role, leads engagement strategy, including with respect to sustainability, which
with shareholders and hosted the 2023 AGM alongside was supplemented by opening remarks from the
fellow Board members. The Group Chairman and certain Remuneration Committee Chair. The Audit Committee
Board members also held an investor stewardship event. Chair also provided updates on both the Audit and Risk
committees and their activities during the year. This
Maria Ramos, our Senior Independent Director, was
was followed by a Q&A session. Questions could be
available as an alternative point of contact for shareholders.
submitted in advance of the event, asked live in person
Bill Winters and Andy Halford were the primary or via a web-based platform for those who joined
spokespeople for the Group in 2023. Throughout the year electronically.
they engaged extensively with existing shareholders
and potential new investors during individual or group
meetings and conferences, either in person or virtually. Debt investors and credit rating agencies
Diego De Giorgi has replaced Andy, following his Our Debt Investor Relations team has primary responsibility
retirement, in this regard from January 2024. In addition, for managing the Group’s relationships with debt investors
Ben Hung, CEO Asia hosted investors and analysts in and the three major rating agencies, with local market chief
Asia aimed at promoting greater awareness of our executives and chief financial officers leading on smaller
strategy and progress in that region. Various members subsidiary ratings. In 2023, management met with debt
of the Group’s Management Team also participated investors across the regions, and maintained a regular
in investor conferences throughout the year. dialogue with the rating agencies.
It is important that the Group, as an active issuer of senior
unsecured and non-equity capital, maintains regular
contact with debt investors to ensure continued appetite
for the Group’s credit. The Group’s credit ratings are a key
part of the external perception of our financial strength
and creditworthiness.
Further information can be viewed at sc.com/investors
Engagement with investors: what we did during 2023
February March April May June July August
2022 full-year Conferences and 2023 first quarter AGM, Asia Conferences 2023 half-year Roadshows
results and roadshows results and seminar and results
roadshows conferences conferences
September October November December
Conferences and 2023 third-quarter Stewardship event, Conferences
roadshows results sustainability event
and conferences
158 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 159
Directors’
report
The Board’s engagement with investors
Retail shareholders
The Group Company Secretary oversees communication with our retail shareholders.
AGM
The meeting was held on 3 May 2023. We were pleased All Board-proposed resolutions were passed, with
that in addition to in-person attendance, we offered shareholder support for each ranging from 94.70 per cent
shareholders the opportunity to participate electronically to 100 per cent. We remain very grateful for the support
via a live web portal. Within this portal, shareholders were of our shareholders.
able to view a live video feed of the AGM, submit voting
Detail regarding the directors’ remuneration report
instructions and questions in writing or ask them through
resolution can be found in the Directors’ Remuneration
an audio line. Shareholders who attended the meeting
Report starting on page 182. Further detail on how the
in person were able to submit voting instructions and ask
Group engaged with investors more generally can be
questions directly.
found on page 57.
The AGM is a key date in the Board’s calendar and the
Voting results from the 2023 AGM can be viewed at
hybrid format ensured that shareholders could engage sc.com/investors
with them regarding the Company’s recent performance
A summary of responses to questions on key themes
and strategic priorities. Questions received from raised by shareholders was made available on our website
shareholders covered a diverse range of topics, including after the meeting and can be found at sc.com/agm
climate and the Group’s net zero pathway; diversity; the
Group’s strategy; director remuneration; shareholder
engagement; share price and regulatory developments.
The Board’s engagement with clients and suppliers
Clients are central to everything we do and promoting Suppliers provide efficient and sustainable goods and
productive, sustainable relationships with them is a key services for our business and certain members of the
priority. In 2023, Board members, either collectively or Board also met with them during the year. Detail on how
individually, met clients face-to-face or virtually to keep the Group engaged more generally with clients and
abreast of developing client trends, experiences and needs. suppliers can be found on pages 55, 56, 58 and 59 of the
As part of our overseas Board programme, members of Strategic report.
the Board also travelled within our footprint for meetings
with clients and hosted client dinners throughout the year.
In addition, updates on clients’ insights form part of deep
dives into product segment strategy at Board meetings.
The Board’s engagement with regulators and governments
The Board, either collectively or individually, engaged Risk, Credit Risk and macroeconomic developments,
with relevant authorities and regulators including in the resolvability, and risk-free rate transition. Further detail
UK, Hong Kong and South Korea to discuss key items on how the Group engaged with regulators and
and developments. Topics of discussion varied, including governments more generally can be found on page 57
change management, Execution Risk, information and of the Strategic report.
cybersecurity, Data Risk, Model Risk management, Climate
The Board’s engagement with society
The Board receives regular updates from management In addition, external and internal speakers provided input
concerning the communities and environment in which to the Board’s discussions, which covered key societal issues
we operate. such as China’s emergence from the COVID pandemic, the
evolving geopolitical landscape in the Middle East, and the
Either collectively or individually, directors were able to
global macroeconomic environment. Further detail on how
visit some of the Group’s markets this year. Directors
the Group engaged with society more generally can be
participated in a volunteering day in Jakarta, where
found on page 59.
they taught four modules from our financial education
programme to children aged 15–16. In Seoul, directors took
part in a community engagement session where they
facilitated a mock investment and solution challenge
with three female start-up CEOs from our Women in
Entrepreneurship programme.
Directors’ report Corporate governance
The Board’s engagement and linkages with the Group’s subsidiaries
The Board and its committees recognise the importance The Remuneration Committee Chair also held a
of creating, maintaining and building upon appropriate videoconference attended by the subsidiary remuneration
linkages with the Group’s subsidiaries. In 2023, the Group committee chairs and the chairs of subsidiary boards
Chairman and INEDs engaged with the Group’s subsidiaries that have remuneration responsibilities. The call was
through a number of forums. This included a video-enabled also attended by the Group Chairman, other members
chair and committee chair engagement session, as well as of the Group Remuneration Committee and executives
other forms of interaction. from Human Resources and Reward. The call fostered
knowledge sharing and best practice between the Group
The Group Chairman hosted a virtual subsidiary chair
Remuneration Committee and the subsidiary remuneration
engagement session during 2023. The event opened with
committees and raises awareness of the priorities felt by
an update from Bill Winters on the third-quarter results,
the wider workforce in our markets. Topics that were
progress against our strategic priorities, and areas of
discussed included:
focus for the remainder of the year and going into 2024.
The subsidiary chairs asked questions, both on the Group’s • The Fair Pay Charter and recent benefits-related
performance and questions specific to their markets. initiatives
José Viñals then updated the subsidiary chairs on Board
• Key focus areas for the 2023 year-end pay review and
changes, areas of focus for the year so far at the PLC Board,
our drive to embed a high-performance culture through
and Board diversity. The Chairman finished his thoughts on
strong differentiation
the macro outlook and challenges for the Group into 2024.
• Discussion on key focus areas for the subsidiaries
Committee chair engagement
• 2024 priorities, including the development of a new
The Audit Committee held its annual videoconference recognition platform.
during the year, followed by a Q&A session. This was hosted
by the Audit Committee Chair and attended by the Group Other activities that took place during 2023 to further
Chairman and the chairs of subsidiary audit committees. strengthen the linkages across the Group included
The Group Financial Controller; Group Head, Internal Audit; the following:
Regional Head, Audit, Europe and the Americas, and Africa • The Group Chairman attended a SCBHK board meeting
and the Middle East; Group Head, Conduct, Financial Crime
and Compliance; members of the Group’s statutory auditor, • The Chair of the Group Audit Committee attended an
EY, including the lead audit partner; the Group Company audit committee meeting of Standard Chartered Bank
Secretary and the Committee Secretary also participated (Singapore) Limited (SCBSL). The audit committee
in the call. Items discussed during the call included: chairs of SCBHK and SCBSL attended one Group Audit
Committee Meeting
• 2023 Audit Committee focus areas
• The Chair of the Board Risk Committee attended a
• Group Finance update, which featured UK Audit and risk committee meeting of SCBHK. The risk committee
Corporate Governance reforms and likely impact on chairs of SCBHK and SCBSL joined one Group Board Risk
subsidiaries, IFRS 9 models, increased sustainability Committee meeting.
disclosure and an update on capitalised software
Further detail regarding how the Group engages with
• Conduct, financial crime and compliance update its stakeholders can be found on pages 54 to 64.
• Group Internal Audit reporting to subsidiary audit
committees
• Group statutory audit update from EY.
The Board Risk Committee Chair hosted the annual
videoconference with chairs of the subsidiary board
risk committees, followed by a Q&A session. The Group
Chairman; Group Chief Risk Officer; Global Head of
Enterprise Risk Management and Deputy Chief Risk Officer
Standard Chartered Bank; the Group Company Secretary
and Committee Secretary also participated in the call.
Items discussed during the call included:
• 2023 Board Risk Committee focus areas
• Group Chief Risk Officer’s 2023 priorities
• Update on Model and Treasury Risk.
160 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Directors’ report Corporate governance
Audit Committee What are the main responsibilities of the Committee?
The Committee is responsible for oversight and advice to the
Board on matters relating to financial, non-financial and narrative
reporting. The Committee’s role is to review, on behalf of the Board,
“In light of the challenging the Group’s internal controls, including internal financial controls.
The Committee has exercised oversight of the work undertaken by
external environment, the
the internal Conduct, Financial Crime & Compliance (CFCC) and
Group’s investment in China Group Internal Audit (GIA) functions and EY. The Committee Chair
reports to the Board on the Committee’s key areas of focus
Bohai Bank (Bohai), and the
following each meeting.
Group’s exposures to China
The Committee has written Terms of Reference that can be
Commercial Real Estate (CRE) viewed at sc.com/termsofreference
in particular, was an area of
Who else attended 2023 Committee meetings?
significant focus.” The Group Chairman; Group Chief Executive; Group Chief
Financial Officer; Group Chief Financial Officer Designate (from
2 September); Group Chief Risk Officer; Group General Counsel;
Group Head, Internal Audit; Group Head of CFCC; Group Head,
Central Finance; representatives from Group Finance; Group
Statutory Auditor; and the Group Company Secretary. Paul Khoo,
Committee composition independent adviser to the Board, attended a discussion on
Financial Crime Compliance-related matters.
As part of, and in addition to most scheduled Committee
meetings, the Committee held private members-only meetings.
The Committee also met with the Group’s Statutory Auditor, EY
Phil David Christine Shirish Jackie Maria Carlson
and the Group Head, Internal Audit, without management being
Rivett Conner Hodgson, Apte Hunt Ramos Tong
(Chair) CBE1 present. The Committee members have detailed and relevant
experience and bring an independent mindset to their role.
The Board is satisfied that Phil Rivett has recent and relevant
financial experience. Phil is a chartered accountant with over
40 years’ experience of professional accountancy and audit
focused on banks and insurance companies. He led the audits
of a number of leading banks during his career as senior audit
partner of PricewaterhouseCoopers. He is also chair of the audit
8/8 8/8 1/1 8/8 8/8 8/8 8/8 committee for Nationwide Building Society.
1 Christine stepped down from the Committee on 1 May 2023. Biographical details of the Committee members can be
viewed on pages 137 to 141
I am pleased to present the Audit Committee report for the year The Committee reviewed and discussed the refresh of the Group
ended 31 December 2023. This report sets out the areas of significant Code of Conduct and Ethics, and recommended this to the Board for
focus for the Committee and its activities over the course of the year. endorsement. This was a substantial refresh, designed to provide a
Throughout the year, the Committee has carefully scrutinised and guide for colleague behaviour in a fast-changing world with new
challenged credit impairments, key accounting issues, significant technologies including artificial intelligence, customer expectations
accounting estimates and judgements made by management to and the shifting geopolitical landscape. We were keen to understand
ensure that they are appropriate and clearly communicated in the the roll-out and training that would be provided to fully embed this
Group’s public disclosures. In light of the challenging external within the Group.
environment, the Group’s investment in China Bohai Bank (Bohai), The Committee is cognisant of the benefits of engaging with broader
and the Group’s exposures to China Commercial Real Estate (CRE) in stakeholders and updating them on the Committee’s priorities and
particular, was an area of significant focus. The Committee reviewed activities. As Audit Committee Chair, I participated in the Group’s
carrying values for larger investments and management overlays. stewardship event in November 2023, where the work of the Audit
Sovereign ratings and credit impairments have also been reviewed Committee was discussed. Details on the stewardship event may be
and discussed, including Sri Lanka, Pakistan, Nigeria and Ghana. found on page 158.
The Committee is mindful of the work of the BRC on emerging The Committee has exercised its authority delegated by the Board for
sovereign and country risks. The Audit Committee’s work during the ensuring the integrity of the Group’s published financial information
year complemented the wider review undertaken by the BRC on by discussing and challenging the judgements and disclosures made
sovereign and country risks. by management, and the assumptions and estimates on which they
The Committee has been focused on the Group’s implementation are based. The Committee has exercised judgement in deciding
plan addressing UK ACG reforms, including the FRC’s consultation on which of the issues it considered to be significant in the financial
the UK Code and legislation published, and later withdrawn, by the statements, and this report sets out the material matters that it has
UK government. In readiness for those proposals, work has been considered in these deliberations.
done on controls, process improvement and examining work already As a result of the Committee’s work in 2023, assurance has been
undertaken on stress testing, going concern and viability statements. provided to the Board on the quality and appropriateness of the
Following its consultation, the FRC decided not to take forward a Group’s financial reporting, and on internal audit, compliance and
number of proposals. The Committee is considering which of the regulatory matters, to continue to safeguard the interests of the
proposals the Group may decide to take forward on a voluntary Group’s broader stakeholders. The following pages provide insight
basis. The updated UK Code was published in January 2024 and and context into the Committee’s work and activities during the year.
management is reviewing the implications and timings, with reporting
being provided to the Committee regularly throughout the year.
As the Board-appointed Consumer Duty Champion, I am fully
engaged on the progress of Standard Chartered Bank’s
implementation plans, through regular briefings with the Consumer Phil Rivett
Duty Accountable Executive. The Committee also receives updates Chair of the Audit Committee
on Consumer Duty, including progress on agreed commitments
and actions to ensure that Consumer Duty is fully embedded in
our customer experience.
162 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Directors’ report Corporate governance
Board Risk Committee What are the main responsibilities of the Committee?
The Committee is responsible for exercising oversight, on behalf
of the Board, of the key risks of the Group. It reviews the Group’s
Risk Appetite Statement and Enterprise Risk Management
“In an ever-changing and Framework (ERMF) and makes recommendations to the Board.
Its responsibilities also include reviewing the appropriateness
complex geopolitical and and effectiveness of the Group’s risk management systems, key
controls and considering the implications of material regulatory
macroeconomic environment,
change proposals, reviewing reports on principal risks, including
the Committee remained Climate Risk, to the Group’s business, providing oversight and
challenge to the design and execution of stress testing, and
focused to ensure efficient
ensuring effective due diligence on material acquisitions and
and effective risk disposals. The Committee Chair reports to the Board on the
Committee’s key areas of focus following each meeting.
management across
The Committee has written Terms of Reference that can be
the Group.” viewed at sc.com/termsofreference
Who else attended Committee meetings in 2023?
Committee composition
The Group Chairman; Group Chief Executive; Group Chief
Financial Officer; Group Chief Financial Officer Designate
(from 2 September); Group Chief Risk Officer (GCRO); Group
Head of Enterprise Risk Management; Group General
Maria David Gay Phil David Carlson Shirish Robin Counsel; Group Treasurer; Group Head, Conduct, Financial
Ramos Conner Huey Rivett Tang Tong Apte Lawther, Crime & Compliance; Group Head, Internal Audit; the Group’s
(Chair) Evans, CBE1 Statutory Auditor; and the Group Company Secretary.
CBE
Sir Iain Lobban, independent adviser to the Board, regularly
attended discussions on Information and Cyber Security Risk
and technology. Paul Khoo, an independent adviser to the
Board, attended discussions on Financial Crime Risk (FCR)
6/6 6/6 6/6 6/6 6/6 6/6 6/6 6/6 related matters. EY attended all Committee meetings in
2023. As part of, and in addition to scheduled Committee
Ad hoc
meetings, the Committee held private members-only
5/5 5/5 5/5 5/5 5/5 5/5 5/5 4/5 meetings. The Committee’s membership comprises INEDs
who have a deep and broad experience of banking and
the risk factors affecting the Group, including geopolitical,
economic, IT, Financial Crime (FC) and general business risks.
1 Robin was unable to attend one ad hoc meeting due to a prior Biographical details of the Committee members can be
business commitment viewed on pages 137 to 141
I am pleased to present the Board Risk Committee’s report for the year taken from the extensive work performed by the second and third
ended 31 December 2023. lines of defence to review and challenge Resolvability documentation
In an ever-changing and complex geopolitical and macroeconomic prepared by the first line.
environment, the Committee remained focused to ensure efficient Operational Resilience remained a key topic in 2023, with the
and effective risk management across the Group. Committee challenging the embedding of Important Business
Market volatility earlier in the year, resulting from the challenging Services (IBS) and Impact Tolerance Statements (ITS) within the
external environment, prompted the Committee to focus on key Group. The Committee reviewed and recommended to the Board
macroeconomic issues. In particular, a severe liquidity stress test was for approval the Group’s Operational Resilience Self-Assessment.
performed, in light of banking sector events, and the Committee also Furthermore, we considered and approved material changes to the
reviewed and challenged the Group’s Annual Cyclical Scenario (ACS) Group’s IBS and ITS arising from the annual review, in accordance
stress test results for submission to the Bank of England (BoE). with authority delegated by the Board. Progress to meet the
2025 regulatory deadline continues to be carefully monitored to
Credit Risk has been reviewed and discussed at most Committee
ensure compliance.
meetings, given the uncertain external environment, with China
CRE and global CRE being key areas of focus. Sovereign Risk Financial Crime Risk has been a key feature of the Committee’s work
remained a priority, with global trends throughout the year being during the year. The CCIB and CPBB Risk reviews both covered FCR
closely monitored. matters, and we received dedicated papers on client due diligence
and surveillance and Russian sanctions. Towards the end of the year,
The Group’s hedging strategies were robustly challenged, with
we considered emerging FC threats faced by the Group and risk
specific deep dives on Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Book,
mitigation; and we reviewed and discussed the coverage of FCR by
Foreign Exchange, Treasury Portfolios and Financial Markets.
the Committee, Audit Committee and the Board, to ensure that the
The Committee is aware of its critical role in overseeing and assessing balance is appropriate. This discussion provided useful suggestions
robust ICS defence strategies. A key focus of 2023 was ICS Risk for enhancement, which will be taken forward in 2024.
management, with representation from the three lines of defence
In December 2023, we welcomed the board risk committee chairs
and our Cyber Advisor to the Board, Sir Iain Lobban. In particular,
from the Group’s Hong Kong and Singapore banking subsidiaries as
we scrutinised the Group’s ICS Risk Appetite and Strategic Plan.
observers. I hosted a call with subsidiary board risk committee chairs
The Committee has dedicated significant time to ICS Risk this year,
from across the Group in July 2023, designed to strengthen subsidiary
including scheduling an ad hoc meeting and completing ICS training.
governance linkages and engagement.
ICS Risk will remain a key priority given the evolving and dynamic
landscape in which we operate. The following pages provide insight and context into the Committee’s
work and activities during the year.
The Committee has had oversight of Operational Risk during
the year, with particular focus on the Group’s data centre
migration programme.
Resolvability was discussed regularly throughout the year, and we
reviewed and approved the Group’s Resolvability Assessment Report, Maria Ramos
ahead of submission to the PRA in October 2023. Assurance was Chair of the Board Risk Committee
168 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 171
Directors’
report
Activities during the year continued
Stress Testing • Provided oversight, challenge and, where required, approval for:
– the Group Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process (ILAAP) submission, including the scenario
and stress test results
– the Group ICAAP submissions, including the scenarios, stress test and reverse stress test results
– the Group’s ACS Stress Test results submission to the BoE
– results of the Group Recovery Plan stress test
– results of management’s ad hoc stress tests.
• Considered the results of a severe liquidity stress test ran in early 2023, due to considerable banking
sector market volatility, with the particular objective of testing the speed with which the Group could
execute management actions to mitigate the outflows.
• Reviewed, discussed and challenged the outcome and key findings of the liquidity stress test, particularly
management’s assumptions and the quality of management information.
Further details of stress testing are set out on pages 314 to 316
Regulatory Resolvability
• Received regular updates from the three lines of defence which provided the Committee with oversight
of the Group’s progress on resolvability since its first regulatory submission in 2022, with learnings from
the external market events in early 2023 particularly considered.
• Welcomed management’s active dialogue with the BoE on the Group’s 2023 submission.
• Approved the final Group Resolvability Assessment Report for submission to the BoE and PRA, in
accordance with delegated authority from the Board.
Recovery Plan
• Reviewed and challenged the enhancements to the Group’s Recovery Plan.
Trading Book Wind-Down
• Reviewed and discussed the Trading Book Wind-Down (TWD) programme.
• Attended a training session ahead of discussing and probing the expertise and resource capacity for the
TWD programme.
• Approved TWD Governance roles and responsibilities for submission to the PRA.
Operational Resilience – IBS and ITS
• Reviewed and recommended to the Board for approval the Group’s Operational Resilience self-
assessment.
• Considered and approved material changes to the Group’s IBS and ITS, arising from an annual review,
in line with authority delegated by the Board.
• Challenged the embedding of the IBS and ITS in the Group’s day-to-day processes.
IBOR transition
• Received updates on the IBOR transition programme tracking remediation closely ahead of the LIBOR
cessation in September 2023, noting the transition of the programme into business as usual at the end
of 2023.
BCBS 239 principles
• Received and discussed an update on the outcome of the BCBS 239 self-assessment as of end 2022 and
the roadmap for compliance with BCBS 239.
• Received an update on the trajectory of the BCBS 239 programme at year end 2023, including the
progress made and challenges faced.
Internal controls • Discussed reports from the Group Head, Internal Audit which provided summaries of GIA’s appraisals of
controls across key risks, subject to the Committee’s oversight, together with the key risk issues identified
by GIA’s work and management actions put in place to address the findings.
• Reviewed the annual Risk and Control self-assessment and challenged the key areas of elevated
residual risk.
Further details on internal controls are set out on page 222
Remuneration • Considered advice provided by the GCRO to the Remuneration Committee concerning the risk factors
as a risk to be taken into account by the Remuneration Committee in determining incentives for the Group Chief
Executive and other colleagues. Such advice assists the Remuneration Committee in its assessment as
management
to whether the Group’s remuneration policy, practices and procedures are consistent with and promote
tool sound and effective risk management, and do not encourage risk-taking that exceeds the level of
tolerated risk of the Group.
Further details concerning the Group’s approach to using remuneration as a risk management
tool is set out in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 182 to 216
Directors’ report Corporate governance
Activities during the year continued
Group regulator • Discussed key communications from the PRA and FCA, where ICS, Resolvability and TWD Governance
communications were the main themes.
Examples of • CCIB Risk deep dive: Received and discussed updates on the key risk areas and recent GIA work, with a
deeper particular focus on change management and regulatory programmes.
discussions into • CPBB Risk review: Received and discussed papers covering the CPBB portfolio and particularly, Credit
Cards and Personal Loans, Partnerships, FC and ICS risks.
specific topics
• Funding and Liquidity review: Considered a paper outlining the Group approach to liquidity and funding
risk management and enhancements made in response to bank failures in early 2023.
• Country Risk including Sovereign Risk: Discussed the key Country Risk actions during 2022 and a
forward-looking view of the material risks for 2023 and also reviewed the Group’s Country Risk Early
Warning System.
• Credit Portfolio Management (CPM) annual review: Reviewed and discussed the risks relating to CPM
activities and the progress made in balance sheet optimisation, better funds transfer pricing and more
accurate capital and liquidity forecasting.
• Reputational and Sustainability Risk: Discussed a paper setting out the Group’s approach to
Environmental, Social and Governance risk and key enhancements planned, as well as the challenges
relating to regulatory change and data.
• Climate Risk: Discussed a paper on Climate Risk integration and scenario analysis, probing into the
embedding of Climate Risk in the Group’s three lines of defence. Received training, along with other
members of the Board, on Climate Risk in November 2023. Cognisant of the UK regulator’s focus on
Climate Risk, this will remain a key priority in 2024.
• Safety and Security Risk: Received an update on safety and security issues over the past 12 months.
• Credit Risk review: Reviewed progress reports including the key themes from the 2023 reviews and the
review plan for 2024. Discussion focused on large exposures, resourcing and scope of Climate Risk
assessments and stress testing.
• Chief Risk Officer Treasury report: Reviewed the second line view of Treasury Risk including risk
observations and recommendations around the current balance sheet and management of capital
and liquidity.
• SC Ventures Risk and Governance: Discussed an update on the key business risks, the governance model
adopted in the past year and outcomes of, and work to address recent GIA work.
• Blue Sky Thinking/Horizon Scanning: Jointly held a horizon scanning session with the Audit Committee
on the forward-looking geopolitical agenda, where emerging risks were discussed. Further details on the
Blue Sky Thinking session on geopolitical risks are set out on page 146.
Progress against the 2023 Action Plan
The 2023 Action Plan set out a number of actions from the externally facilitated Committee evaluation conducted in 2022.
The 2023 Action Plan was reviewed during the year and good process had been made against the actions, with them all
being completed.
Committee effectiveness review
During 2023, the Group Company Secretary facilitated an internal Board and Board committee effectiveness review.
Key observations from the 2023 internal effectiveness review
The feedback on the Committee’s functioning • The Committee, in conjunction with the Audit
and effectiveness was positive and specifically Committee, had placed appropriate and
highlighted the following: balanced focus on the oversight of FCR,
following the retirement of the Board
• Work had been done to make Committee
Financial Crime Committee in April 2022.
papers more focused and succinct.
However, this is an important topic which
will remain on the agenda.
• The contributions by the GCRO and the Risk
function were well rated.
2024 Action Plan
The 2024 Action Plan for the Committee • Schedule a joint BRC and Audit Committee
reflects suggestions from the evaluation session in Q4 2024 to cover FCR.
and continues to build on the solid progress
• Schedule training sessions in 2024 to cover
made last year:
topics such as PRA model requirements, ICS
• Continue to monitor the length, focus and and future developments, FCR trends and
timeliness of papers, with consideration to Climate Risk.
be given as to how peer analysis can be
included in relevant Committee papers.
172 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Directors’ report Corporate governance
Culture and Sustainability
Committee
“ The Group’s Stands are particularly important as
they represent not only for what the Group
stands but also how we can deliver concrete
impact over a multi-year time horizon.”
Committee composition
What are the main responsibilities of the Committee?
The Committee was formed by the Board to oversee the Group’s
culture and sustainability priorities.
Linda Yueh, Jasmine Jackie Robin David
CBE (Chair) Whitbread1 Hunt Lawther, Tang The Committee has written Terms of Reference that
CBE can be viewed at sc.com/termsofreference
Who else attended Committee meetings in 2023?
The Group Chairman; Group Chief Executive; Group Head,
Human Resources; Group Head Corporate Affairs, Brand &
Marketing; Chief Sustainability Officer, Group General Counsel
and Group Company Secretary.
Biographical details of Committee members can be found
4/4 1/1 4/4 4/4 4/4 on pages 137 to 141
Ad hoc
1/1 N/A 1/1 1/1 1/1
1 Jasmine stepped down from the Committee on 3 May 2023
I am delighted to present my first Culture and Sustainability received a progress update on how the Stands were being ‘lived’
Committee report, and I extend my thanks to Jasmine Whitbread for in practice and the ongoing initiatives framed around three key
her skilful stewardship of the Committee over the past seven years. areas: financial inclusion through lifting participation, initiatives in
I have reviewed the operation and scope of the Committee, including supporting SMEs, and the contributions of ESG Products/ Sustainable
how it enhances the scrutiny of the Board in key areas, how it interacts Finance. The Committee is also overseeing a review of the metrics
with the Board and other committees, and how it discharges its underpinning each of the Stands to ensure that we can measure
responsibilities. Building on a strong foundation, the Committee has progress and look to incorporate relevant aspects within our annual
been refocused on the development of our Sustainability, Climate and and longer-term remuneration incentives.
Culture initiatives and the Stands.
This year, the Committee endorsed phase 2 of Futuremakers – the
Sustainability is a strategic priority for the Group, helping people to Group’s global initiative to tackle inequality and promote economic
thrive long term. Following the Board’s approval of our refreshed inclusion. The Committee applauded the achievement of phase 1
Sustainability Strategy, the Committee has been overseeing the which raised USD93.3 million from 2019 to 2023 and reached more
implementation of this plan, which includes delivering on our net than 2.1 million young people across 43 countries to empower the
zero commitments, scaling up Sustainable Finance, leveraging our next generation to learn, earn and grow. Building on the successes
Innovation Hubs to drive ecosystem development and future income, of phase 1, we have refined our focus to create greater impact in our
and further embedding sustainability across the Group. At every communities in the next seven years (2024 to 2030). With a select
meeting, the Committee has been monitoring the fast-moving global group of value-adding programme partners, we will lift the economic
sustainability landscape to ensure the Group continues to strengthen participation of disadvantaged young women and micro businesses.
its support for clients on their transition journeys.
The Group’s culture of excellence has been defined as ‘a one Bank
The Committee has overseen the rationalisation of the Group’s culture of ambition, action and accountability that puts our clients
approach to sustainability, underpinned by both long-term goals – at the heart of all we do’. The Committee has been overseeing the
our Sustainability Aspirations – and short-term targets and priorities ongoing work to deliver on this aspiration, and it is pleasing to see the
– our Strategic Pillars. These objectives are explicitly linked to effect of this with the most recent My Voice survey showing that the
performance metrics, to assist the Group in narrowing its focus to employee experience is improving across the Group.
deliver greater relevance and impact for our stakeholders.
Focus on diversity and inclusion (D&I) initiatives continued, and the
Last year, Jasmine spoke about the work that was in progress to Committee was supportive of the attention and focus on ‘inclusion
enhance our Board workforce engagement programme. I’m pleased sentiment’, measured through an index of eight indicators in the My
to report that the Board has revamped its approach and it is being Voice survey. The Committee has overseen the Group’s progress on
monitored by the Committee. Under this framework, all INEDs advancing its D&I maturity and performance culture.
will participate in engagement sessions with targeted groups of
The following report provides further insight into the Committee’s
colleagues as part of our programme of Board visits and in our
work over the year.
London headquarters. These sessions will provide directors with a
better sense of our colleagues’ challenges, successes and concerns,
and add to the information received from employee surveys and
other engagements.
The Group’s Stands are particularly important as they represent not
only for what the Group stands but also how we can deliver concrete Dr Linda Yueh
impact over a multi-year time horizon. During the year, the Committee Chair of the Culture and Sustainability Committee
174 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 175
Directors’
report
Activities during the year
Sustainability • Continued to review and challenge the Group’s progress on the net zero pledge made at the 2021 AGM,
and ESG tracking the Group’s progress in the ever-evolving landscape.
• Oversaw the Group’s Sustainability Strategy, receiving progress updates from the Group Chief
Sustainability Officer.
• Monitored the assessment of the Group’s performance by the various external ratings agencies on its
approach to ESG matters, focusing on the agencies that the Group’s investors prioritise.
• Oversaw the rationalisation of the Sustainability Aspirations into a framework of four high-level
overarching Aspirations: scale sustainable finance, drive social impact through our business and
communities, uplift and deliver on net zero commitments, and enhance and deepen leadership within
the sustainability ecosystem. These four overarching Aspirations will remain constant with the metrics
underpinning them being periodically reviewed and amended.
• Discussed and endorsed the revised Global Community Engagement Strategy, phase 2 of Futuremakers
by Standard Chartered, following achievement of the ambition set out in phase 1 .
Stands • Received an update on how CPBB was embedding the immediate and longer-term aspects of its work
(Accelerating on the Stands into its business strategy.
Zero, Lifting • Continued to monitor the Accelerating Zero Stand through the work outlined in the Sustainability
section above, including overseeing the net zero pathway and the rationalisation of the sustainability
Participation
Aspirations.
and Resetting
• Reviewed and discussed the year-end assessment on the achievement of the Stands.
Globalisation)
Under the revised terms of reference, a progress update on one of the Stands will be presented to each
meeting and a written update will be provide on the other two. The Committee will also review and
challenge the annual Stands assessment and make recommendations to the Remuneration Committee.
Culture and • Received an update on the Group’s culture work which had been completed in 2023 and the areas of
Diversity and focus for the remainder of the year and into 2024.
Inclusion (D&I) • Monitored progress against the D&I strategy and discussed the Group’s approach to inclusion against an
evolving employee advocacy landscape.
• Received an update from Group Internal Audit on its activities and opinions with respect to culture and
sustainability.
Board workforce The Committee has responsibility for overseeing the Board’s workforce engagement programme and
engagement ensuring workforce policies and practices remain consistent with the Group’s valued behaviours.
and workforce During the year, the Committee has overseen the following activity:
policies and • Received the annual employee engagement survey (My Voice) and probed the results to understand
practices what was driving the scores and challenged the team on areas for improvement.
• Reviewed the existing framework for Board workforce engagement and launched a new enhanced
model at the end of the year. Under the new model, informal listening sessions will be included in the
programme for every overseas visit, and in our London headquarters, with an expectation that all INEDs
will participate in at least one session annually. These are in addition to the channels that are currently
in place for the Board to understand the views of the workforce, including management reporting to
the Board on culture, the My Voice survey, and other people-related topics presented to the Committee.
• Informal lunches hosted by the Board, with UK Talent in September and Seoul Talent in November,
provided an opportunity for the Board to hear directly from employees on how the Bank’s direction and
strategy was lived and embedded in different parts of the Bank.
More information on listening to our employees can be found on page 60
Directors’ report Corporate governance
Progress against the 2023 Action Plan
The 2023 Action Plan set out a number of actions from the externally facilitated Committee evaluation conducted in 2022.
The 2023 Action Plan was reviewed during the year and good process had been made against the actions, with all of them
being completed.
Committee performance review
During 2023, an internal Board and Committee performance review was facilitated by the Group Company Secretary.
Key observations from the 2023 internal effectiveness review
The feedback on the Committee’s functioning • There were no identified gaps in the
and effectiveness was positive and specifically technical skills of the Committee, but
highlighted the following: consideration is being given to continuing
to enhance the Committee with expertise
• The review of the Committee’s responsibilities
in technology, employee engagement
had been completed during the year,
and climate.
including strengthening the links between
the Committee and the Board and its • Committee papers were rated as high
other committees. quality and could be further improved
by clearly stating the action required by
the Committee.
2024 Action Plan
The 2024 Action Plan for the Committee • Monitor and reduce the overlap with the
reflects suggestions from the evaluation Board, other Board committees and
and continues to build on the solid progress Management, with particular focus placed
made last year: on the alignment between the Committee
and the Remuneration Committee in relation
• Monitor the refocus of the Committee to
to the Stands.
ensure that the Committee’s mandate is
clear, that papers clearly set out their • Arrange further training on net zero, ESG and
purpose, and that the links between the sustainability/climate.
Committee and the Board and other Board
committees continue to be strengthened.
176 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 177
Directors’
report
Governance and What are the main responsibilities of the Committee?
The Committee has responsibility for assisting and
advising the Board in relation to the composition of, and
Nomination Committee
appointments to, the Company’s Board and its committees,
and the development of a diverse pipeline for succession.
The Committee is also responsible for considering the impact
“ This year, the Committee has been of material changes to corporate governance regulation
and legislation affecting the Group, and has oversight of the
focused on the recruitment of
Group’s approach to subsidiary corporate governance.
high-quality candidates with a
The Committee reports to the Board on its key areas
diversity of skills and backgrounds of focus following each Committee meeting.
including technology, sustainability,
The Committee has written Terms of Reference that
consumer focus and improving can be viewed at sc.com/termsofreference
gender diversity and
Who else attended Committee meetings in 2023?
representation.”
The Group Chief Executive; Group Head, HR; and Group
Company Secretary.
Committee composition
Biographical details of the Committee members
can be viewed on pages 137 to 141
José Shirish Phil Linda Yueh, Maria Jasmine
Viñals Apte Rivett CBE 1 Ramos Whitbread2
(Chair)
3/3 3/3 3/3 2/2 3/3 1/1
Ad hoc
2/2 2/2 2/2 1/1 2/2 1/1
1 Linda joined the Committee on 3 May 2023
2 Jasmine stepped down from the Committee on 3 May 2023
The year started with a number of changes to the Board’s enable the Group’s long-term success. This year, the Committee has
composition. We welcomed Linda Yueh to the Board as an INED on been focused on the recruitment of high-quality candidates with a
1 January 2023, Christine Hodgson retired on 31 January 2023 after diversity of skills and backgrounds including technology, sustainability,
nine years on the Board, and Jasmine Whitbread retired after eight consumer focus, and improving gender diversity and representation.
years, at the Annual General Meeting. Following Jasmine’s retirement, Throughout we remain committed to the importance of maintaining
Linda was appointed Chair of the Culture and Sustainability gender diversity on the Board. The Committee also provided oversight
Committee and a member of the Governance and Nomination of the detailed executive and senior management succession plans.
Committee. This year, we are sorry to say goodbye to Gay Huey Evans While, as a result of the departure of Christine and Jasmine, we were
and Carlson Tong. As announced on 16 February 2024, Gay will step disappointed to end the year just below both our own gender diversity
down from the Board with effect from 29 February 2024. Carlson will target of at least 40 per cent female representation and that set out
step down on 9 May 2024, ahead of the AGM. We thank Gay for her in the UK Listing Rules, following the composition changes to the
dedication and significant contribution, particularly as chair of the Board announced on 16 February 2024, by the 2024 AGM female
Board Financial Crime Risk Committee, and Carlson for his dedication representation on the Board will be 42 per cent.
and contribution as a member of the Audit and Board Risk
Committees. We also thank Paul Khoo, who steps down this year as As part of the Committee’s governance oversight role, it considered
Financial Crime Advisor to the Board. Paul’s wise counsel has been proposals from the FRC and the UK Government for ACG reforms.
invaluable in our financial crime compliance journey over the past The new UK Code was published in January 2024. The Committee
nine years. will consider the changes to the UK Code as part of its Committee
agenda in 2024, ahead of the UK Code 2024 becoming applicable
After nine years as GCFO, Andy Halford decided to retire from the to the Company in 2025, and additional internal control reporting
Group. The Committee spent considerable time overseeing the search provisions becoming applicable the following year. It also received
for his replacement. A robust search and assessment process was updates from the three regional CEOs who each have responsibility
undertaken, both internally, through the succession plans which were for the subsidiary governance processes across their regions and
in place, and mapped externally, in conjunction with executive search provide a holistic view of the governance framework and challenges
firm Russell Reynolds. A number of exceptional candidates were faced across the Group’s footprint.
identified, both internal and external, and Committee members met
with a range of shortlisted candidates, of which Diego De Giorgi The Committee reviewed the progress of our induction programme
emerged as the preferred successor. The Committee was impressed for Linda Yueh, Robin Lawther and Jackie Hunt, and found that the
by Diego’s profound commercial acumen and strong business programme had been well received and that good progress had been
experience, including deep investor and entrepreneurial experience, made. The Committee also paid significant attention to enhancing
which he has developed over more than three decades in the global the effectiveness of the Board and its committees. In the autumn
financial services sector. Diego joined the Group in September 2023 of 2023, a Board effectiveness review was undertaken, internally
as GCFO Designate and began a comprehensive induction into the facilitated by the Group Company Secretary, which concluded that
Group. After receiving regulatory approval he was appointed to the the Board continues to operate effectively while also signalling several
Board as GCFO in January 2024. Andy will remain with the Group as areas for improvement, details of which can be found on page 155.
a senior adviser until the end of August 2024.
On 16 February 2024 we announced that we are welcoming Diane
Jurgens to the Board from 1 March 2024. Diane is a highly experienced
and respected technologist who will bring significant technology and
transformation expertise and insight to the Board having operated
across a variety of sectors and the Group’s key markets. Dr José Viñals
The Committee spends a great deal of its time considering INED Chair of the Governance and Nomination Committee
succession planning and the wider composition of the Board, ensuring
that the Board has, and will continue to have, the necessary mix of
skills, knowledge, expertise and diversity, in the broadest sense, to
Directors’ report Corporate governance
Board composition as at 31 December 2023
In compliance with the UK Listing Rule 9.8.6(10), we report on the ethnic background and gender of directors on our Board
and senior management in this section.
Gender and ethnic diversity
Board gender diversity Number of senior of positions Board ethnic diversity
(CEO, CFO, SID and Chair)
Female Female White
5 1 9
38 25 31
Male % Male % Ethnic %
8 (2022: 43%) 3 (2022: 25%) minority (2022: 21%)
background
4
Experience
International Representation Banking, risk, finance and INED tenure (including Chair)
experience from our markets accounting experience among
INEDs and Chair
0–1 year 0%
100 92 82 1–3 years 36%
% % %
3–6 years 36%
6–9 years 27%
9+ years 0%
Gender diversity – Board members, senior positions and executive management
Number of
senior positions Percentage of
Percentage of on the Board Number in executive
Number of the Board1 (CEO, CFO, SID executive management1
Board members (%) and Chair) management (%)
Men 8 61.5 3 7 50.0
Women 5 38.5 1 7 50.0
Not specified/prefer not to say 0 0 0 0 0
Ethnic diversity – Board members, senior positions and executive management
Number of
senior positions Percentage of
Percentage of on the Board Number in executive
Number of the Board1 (CEO, CFO, SID executive management1
Board members (%) and Chair) management (%)
White British or other White
(including minority-White groups) 9 69.2 4 5 35.7
Mixed/multiple ethnic groups 0 0 0 0 0
Asian/ Asian British 4 30.8 0 6 42.9
Black/African/Caribbean/Black British 0 0 0 1 7.1
Other ethnic group, including Arab 0 0 0 0 0
Not specified/prefer not to say 0 0 0 2 14.3
1 The figures are presented to 1 decimal place
178 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 179
Directors’
report
Activities during the year
Board and senior • Engaged Russell Reynolds1, a signatory to the voluntary code of conduct for executive search firms, to
talent succession review the market for future INED candidates with capabilities in technology, consumer experience,
sustainability and market representation.
planning
• Discussed the composition of the Board and considered the orderly succession of current INEDs and the
skills, knowledge, experience, diversity (in the widest sense) and attributes required of future INEDs, both
immediately and in the medium to longer term. In considering the Board’s succession, the Committee
takes into account the length of tenure of the INEDs, and the importance of regularly refreshing the
Board membership.
• Systematically reviewed a number of INED long and short lists throughout the year to identify potential
candidates with a diverse range of skills, experience, knowledge and perspectives.
• Worked with Russell Reynolds to conduct an external talent mapping and search process for the Group
Chief Financial Officer role. Oversaw a thorough assessment and interview process for both external and
internal candidates for the role. The process resulted in the Committee recommending to the Board the
appointment of Diego De Giorgi.
• Maintained oversight of the progress made by Shirish Apte, Robin Lawther, Jackie Hunt and Linda Yueh,
against their tailored Board and committee induction programmes.
• Provided oversight of the detailed executive and senior management (level below Management Team)
succession plans, alongside other critical roles, including the oversight of a process of external market
mapping of key management roles.
• Reviewed succession plans for the committee chair roles, identifying appropriate individuals with the
necessary skills and attributes to provide emergency cover as required, as well as on a longer-term basis,
including acknowledging and addressing where gaps exist. As part of this process, the Committee
recommended to the Board the appointment of Linda Yueh as Chair of the CSC.
Board and • Provided oversight of the Board and committees’ evaluation, and monitored progress against the 2023
committees’ Action Plan, which addressed the key observations from the 2022 effectiveness review.
• Discussed the observations and recommendations which flowed from the 2023 internally facilitated
effectiveness
Board and committees’ review and recommended to the Board the 2024 Action Plan.
review
Details of this year’s Board and committees’ evaluation, including the process which we followed, observations from the
review and the resulting 2024 Action Plan can be found on pages 155 and 156
Board Diversity • Reviewed progress made in 2023 against the agreed commitments set out in the Board Diversity Policy.
Policy • Conducted a review of the Board Diversity Policy to ensure that it continued to drive diversity in its
broadest sense, while continuing to take account of best practice, specifically in the area of gender,
social and ethnic backgrounds, knowledge, personal attributes, skills and experience. No changes were
made to the Policy in 2023.
• Considered the Company’s current and projected compliance against the targets set out in the UK
Listing Rules and Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules (DTRs) in relation to diversity and inclusion
on company boards.
Further details of progress the Board has made against the key objectives set out in the Board Diversity Policy
are set out on page 180
Independent • Recommended to the Board the extension, for a further 12 months, of Sir Iain Lobban’s appointment as
advisers independent adviser to the Board and its committees on cyber security and cyber threats.
Outside interest • Conducted an annual review of the directors’ existing and previously authorised potential and actual
situational conflicts of interest and considered whether any circumstances would necessitate the
authorisation being revoked or amended. Also noted directors’ other directorships and business
interests taken during the year in the context of time commitment, overboarding and the PRA limits on
directorships as well as other regulatory requirements in this area.
Assessment • Considered the independence of each of the non-executive directors, taking into account any
of the non- circumstances likely to impair, or which could impair, their independence. Noted the thorough process
undertaken to assess individual director performance and effectiveness, taking these reviews into
executive
account along with tenure and succession plans in making its recommendation to appoint the INEDs
directors’ for a further year.
independence
Subsidiary • Received updates from the three regional CEOs on the Group’s approach to subsidiary governance.
governance Received assurance of effective oversight and compliance with the Group’s Subsidiary Governance Policy
and discussed material regulatory trends, initiatives and considerations likely to impact the current or
future governance of the Group’s banking subsidiaries; the key actions arising from banking subsidiary
board effectiveness reviews; and linkages between banking subsidiaries and the Group.
Corporate • Considered the FRC’s proposed reforms to the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code, the outcome of the
governance FRC’s consultation and potential implications on the Group’s governance, including on risk management,
internal controls and reporting obligations.
Terms of • Conducted a review of the Committee’s Terms of Reference during the year, taking into account the
Reference responsibilities, obligations and best practice principles it has in the UK and Hong Kong.
1 Russell Reynolds also provides senior resourcing to the Group. The Company is not aware of any connections between Russell Reynolds and the
Company’s directors.
Implementation of the Board Diversity Policy
The Committee conducted its annual review of the Board Diversity Policy (the Policy) in 2023. No changes were made to
the Policy.
Although our Board Diversity Policy does not contain specifications or targets for committee membership, the Policy provides
for a diverse Board with a wide range of skills and perspectives which its members bring to our Board committees.
Directors’ report Corporate governance
Progress against the Board Diversity Policy objectives, and targets set out in the UK Listing Rules
9.8.6(9)
As the composition of the Board continues to change, the balance of women directors on the Board this year fell slightly
compared with last year, with female representation on the Board ending the year at 38 per cent following the departures
of Christine Hodgson and Jasmine Whitbread (as at 31 December 2022 it was at 43 per cent). This falls short of both the
requirements set out in the Policy and in the Listing Rules. The Board is absolutely committed to ensuring female representation
on the Board is at least in line with the target of 40 per cent set out in the Listing Rules and the Policy. Following the composition
changes to the Board, announced on 16 February 2024, by the 2024 AGM female representation on the Board will be
42 per cent.
As of 31 December 2023, the senior positions on the Board, as defined by the Listing Rules, are held by one female director and
three male directors, in line with the minimum requirement set out in the Listing Rules. More details are set out on page 178.
As of 31 December 2023, directors from an ethnic minority background represented 31 per cent of the Board, above the
30 per cent target set out in our Policy. Of the thirteen directors on our Board, four directors are from an ethnic minority
background, above the minimum requirement set out in the Listing Rules. More details are set out on page 178.
Aligned to the Policy’s broad ambition, this year we continue to report on the progress made against the seven objectives set
out in the table below.
Board Diversity Policy objectives Progress
Increasing the representation of women on Increasing gender representation on the Board remains an important focus of the
the Board with an aim to have a minimum of Board’s succession planning process, ensuring that female candidates are fairly
40 per cent female representation represented on long and short lists. The composition of the Board continued to
change during the year, with the retirement of two INEDs, Christine Hodgson
and Jasmine Whitbread from the Board on 31 January 2023 and 3 May 2023
respectively. Linda Yueh was appointed an INED to the Board on 1 January 2023
and we announced the appointment of Diego De Giorgi as Chief Financial Officer
Designate to succeed Andy Halford, with effect from 3 January 2024. Female
representation on the Board is currently 38 per cent, below both the Board’s target
and that set out in the Listing Rules. Following the composition changes to the
Board, announced on 16 February 2024, by the 2024 AGM female representation
on the Board will be 42 per cent.
Adopting an ethnicity aspiration of a Following the changes to the composition of the Board during the year,
minimum of 30 per cent from an ethnic representation from ethnic minority background has increased from 21 per cent
minority background in 2022 to 31 per cent at the end of 2023. We remain committed to our ethnicity
aspiration and to ensuring a broad representation of our directors from across
our markets.
Ensuring that our Board reflects the diverse What sets Standard Chartered apart is our diversity of people, cultures and
markets in which we operate networks. The Board has representation from across the regions in which we
operate, including the UK, EU, North America, North and South-East Asia and
Africa. Many of the INEDs have additional experience of having worked and lived
in many of the Group’s markets. As part of the Committee’s succession planning in
2023, it has considered a significant number of potential future INED candidates
who are representative of some of our key regions and markets.
Ensuring that the Board is comprised of a Throughout the year the Committee has focused on identifying the collective
good balance of skills, experience, knowledge, experience, skills and attributes required both immediately and in the medium to
perspective and varied backgrounds longer term. The Committee has systematically reviewed candidate longlists and
shortlists to identify potentially suitable INED candidates. Areas of particular focus
in 2023 included:
• Expertise from the Technology sector
• Global Consumer experience (non-FS)
• Former CEO experience
• Representation from Group’s markets.
Ensuring that we consider the Group’s We remain committed to all aspects of diversity as we undertake any Board
aspirations in relation to disability, sexual succession process.
orientation, gender identity and gender
expression
Only engaging search firms who are signed up We continue to only engage search firms signed up to the Voluntary Code of
to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Conduct. We worked with Russell Reynolds to assist us in identifying and building
Search firms a pipeline of high-quality potential INED candidates for a number of assignments.
Russell Reynolds is signed up to the Voluntary Code and is committed in
supporting our ambitions to widen all aspects of diversity on the Board.
Reporting annually on the diversity of the The Committee takes an active role in reviewing the succession planning for the
executive pipeline as well as the diversity of Executive, Management Team and senior management one level below the
the Board, including progress being made on Management Team. We continue to improve our reporting of Board and senior
reaching the Board’s gender and ethnicity talent succession planning as well as reporting on the importance of a diverse
aspirations Board as a means of capturing differing perspectives and enhancing discussion.
Progress enhancing diversity along with the Board’s gender and ethnicity
aspirations will continue to be developed.
180 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 181
Directors’
report
Details of the Board’s diverse composition are set out on pages 137 to 141 of this report, and that of the Management Team can
be found on pages 142 to 144. Our approach to collecting Board diversity data is set out on page 503.
Details of the Group’s wider diversity and inclusion strategy, including gender balance across the Group and targets for ethnic
representation, can be found on pages 60 to 63 of this report.
A copy of the full Board Diversity Policy can be viewed at sc.com/boarddiversitypolicy and further details on the Group’s
approach to Diversity and Inclusion can be viewed at sc.com/diversity-and-inclusion
Progress against the 2023 Action Plan
The 2023 Action Plan set out a number of actions from the externally facilitated Committee evaluation conducted in 2022.
The 2023 Action Plan was reviewed during the year and good process had been made against the actions.
Committee effectiveness review
During 2023, the Group Company Secretary facilitated an internal Board and Board committee effectiveness review.
Key observations from the 2023 internal effectiveness review
The feedback on the Committee’s functioning • The Committee’s focus and diligence in
and effectiveness was positive and specifically identifying skills and experience required on
highlighted the following: the Board, and oversight of CEO, CFO and
INED succession was rated highly.
• Work had been done to improve the pace
of the identification and assessment of • The INED induction programmes, including
candidates. the phased nature of their delivery, were
well rated.
2024 Action Plan
The 2024 Action Plan for the Committee • Consider increasing the time allotted for
reflects suggestions from the evaluation meetings to ensure sufficient deliberation.
and continues to build on the solid progress
• Follow up on the suggestions for training to
made last year:
be provided in 2024, including on diversity
• Continue to focus on Board succession and inclusion.
planning, with particular focus placed on
increasing diversity and adding further
deep banking expertise, global markets
representation and sustainability expertise
to the Board.
Directors’ report Directors’ remuneration report
Directors’ remuneration report
continued
Executive directors’ remuneration in 2024
C[[ hange in GCFO]]
On 31 August 2023 we announced that Andy Halford had decided to retire as GCFO and as an executive director.
He has been succeeded by Diego De Giorgi who joined on 1 September 2023. Diego was appointed as GCFO and
joined the Board as an executive director on 3 January 2024, after receiving regulatory approval.
Andy Diego
Andy remained as GCFO and an executive director Diego’s remuneration arrangements have been set in
until 2 January 2024, helping to ensure a smooth accordance with the directors’ remuneration policy.
transition. After stepping down as GCFO, he is
Value (£) Delivery method
continuing as a Senior Adviser, working on strategic
Salary 1,650,000 67% cash
projects for the Group. He will continue to receive his
33% delivered in shares
salary and benefits until he retires on 31 August 2024.
– released in equal
Andy will be considered an eligible leaver and, in amounts over five years
accordance with the directors’ remuneration policy, Pension 110,000 10% of the cash element
was eligible for a 2023 annual incentive award, of salary
determined by the Committee based on Group and
individual performance during 2023. Diego also receives core benefits in line with the
approach for all UK employees with additional
As an eligible leaver, Andy will retain all existing LTIP
role-specific benefits appropriate to his responsibilities.
awards subject to the achievement of performance
measures. He will receive the full value of his 2021-23 Diego was eligible for a 2023 annual incentive which
LTIP award given the performance period will complete has been pro-rated to reflect the period for which he
during his employment. His other awards will be was employed during the year. He is also eligible to
pro-rated for the period until he retires. All outstanding receive an LTIP award that will be granted in 2024.
awards will vest and release as scheduled and remain
Diego did not receive a buyout award.
subject to malus and clawback arrangements. Andy is
not eligible for any further LTIP awards and will not
receive an award in March 2024.
Andy will be eligible to be considered for a pro-rated
2024 annual incentive award for time served as a
Senior Advisor, based on contribution.
In line with the approved directors’ remuneration policy, the Performance will be assessed on:
Committee considers annual salary increases for executive Other
directors taking account of any increase in scope or RoTE Relative TSR ESG strategic
responsibility, market competitiveness, and any salary
increases across the Group. Taking these factors into account, 30% 30% 25% 15%
and in line with the approach of focusing increases on junior
employees, fixed pay for Bill and Diego will not be increased in 0 100
2024 with their salaries being GBP2,517,000 and GBP1,650,000
respectively. Financial Non-financial
See pages 202 and 203 for further details
2024-26 LTIP awards to be granted in March 2024
Having considered 2023 performance, the Committee has
approved the following LTIP awards for the period of 2024-26. Working closely with the Culture and Sustainability
Committee we have considered the categorisation of
2024-26 LTIP
award (£) % of salary performance measures and reorganised the non-financial
Bill Winters 3,322,440 132% strategic measures that relate to environmental, social and
governance (ESG) issues. These are now combined with the
Diego De Giorgi 2,178,000 132%
existing sustainability measures, with a weighting of 25 per
The LTIP awards are performance-linked and outcomes will cent for this category. The overall scorecard continues to be
depend upon achieving specified targets by the end of the split 60 per cent financial and 40 per cent non-financial.
three-year performance period.
Discussions with shareholders were held in December 2023
Following the assessment of performance, resulting shares will and January 2024 on the development of these performance
vest pro-rata from years three to seven, with an additional measures and targets and the input received was
retention period of 12 months after vesting. incorporated into the final decisions by the Committee.
184 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 185
Directors’
report
In January 2024 the Financial Reporting Council (FRC)
published a revised UK Corporate Governance Code which
will apply from 1 January 2025. Following a consultation on
R[[ emoval of the
potential changes during 2023, many of the proposed
changes were not included in the revised Code. We will reflect
bonus cap]]
the updates that have been made in our 2025 report.
In the rest of this report we present the disclosures required by
regulations, as well as additional information to explain how
On 24 October 2023, the Prudential Regulation remuneration for our executives aligns with our strategy,
Authority (PRA) and Financial Conduct Authority shareholder interests and wider workforce pay. In making
(FCA) confirmed the removal of the bonus cap in remuneration decisions for 2023 and beyond, we have also
the UK, effective immediately. been mindful of the experience of our wider stakeholder
group.
We aim to pay our colleagues competitively for
performance aligned to the strategic aims of the I would like to thank my fellow Committee members for the
Group, through structures that are consistent work they have put into the Committee, and our shareholders
with and promote sound and effective risk for their ongoing support and engagement.
management. This should support the Group in
generating sustained and sustainable returns in
the interests of shareholders and other
stakeholders. The removal of the cap does not
change this.
We are considering our pay structures and how Shirish Apte
they might evolve now that the cap has been Chair of the Remuneration Committee
removed. For our executive directors,
(All disclosures in the directors’ remuneration report are unaudited unless
remuneration will continue to be set in line with
otherwise stated. Disclosures marked as audited should be considered audited
relevant regulations and guidance and our in the context of the financial statements as a whole.)
approved directors’ remuneration policy which
includes maximums in respect of variable pay.
These maximums do not change as a result of
the cap being removed and the current structure
will continue until a new policy is proposed and
approved by shareholders, scheduled to be at
the 2025 Annual General Meeting (AGM).
How to use this report
Within the directors’ remuneration report we have Salary, pension, benefits Annual incentive
used colour coding to denote different elements (fixed remuneration)
LTIP
of remuneration, as follows:
We have also used the following icons for ease of navigation through this section and to show alignment between
remuneration and the strategic objectives of the Group.
See pages 20 to 26 for further details
Investors Risk management Ways of Working
Clients Employees Innovation
Sustainability Lifting Participation Resetting Globalisation
Accelerating Zero People and culture
DDiirreeccttoorrss’’ rreeppoorrtt DDiirreeccttoorrss’’ rreemmuunneerraattiioonn rreeppoorrtt
Remuneration alignment
Alignment with...
Our culture Our strategy Our approach
to risk and control
Our performance and Remuneration decisions made The determination of our
reward framework supports across the Group, including for remuneration policy and
us in embedding a high our executive directors, align outcomes align with the
performance culture and with our strategic priorities Group’s risk and control
aligns with our principle that and our Stands, including our framework. In particular:
colleagues should share in commitment to sustainable
• Our scorecards include risk and
the success of the Group. For social and economic
control measures, and the Committee
example: development: has the discretion to adjust incentive
outcomes for risk and control matters
• All remuneration decisions are • Performance measures in our Group that are not reflected in the
grounded in our Fair Pay Charter. and LTIP scorecards are designed to scorecards.
See page 194 for further details on our Fair drive achievement of the financial
Pay Charter and strategic goals that will deliver • The Committee can apply a
long-term sustainable value for our discretionary risk adjustment in
• The wider workforce and our
stakeholders. respect of the Group scorecard
executive directors participate
outcome and has a track record of
in continuous performance • Sustainability and our Stands are applying discretion appropriately.
management and feedback, to key considerations for setting and
ensure that performance is discussed measuring financial and strategic • Long-term sustainable performance is
and assessed throughout the year. targets. supported through the ability to make
adjustments to variable remuneration
• Employee performance is assessed • If scorecard outcomes are not for risk, control and conduct
based on what is achieved and how consistent with progress against behaviours, the deferral of variable
it is achieved in line with our valued our strategic commitments the remuneration, and the ability to apply
behaviours. Our remuneration Committee has the discretion to make malus and clawback where
structure and policies ensure that adjustments. appropriate.
behaviours consistent with these
See page 186 for further details on how our
values are appropriately recognised incentive plans are aligned to our strategy See page 215 for further details
and rewarded.
• Incentives for employees engaged in
• Our LTIP further supports this with an
Audit, Risk and Compliance functions
assessment to ensure appropriate
are set independent of the businesses
levels of conduct have been
they oversee.
demonstrated to meet our conduct
gateway requirement.
M[[ anaging risk and control]]
The Group has a robust formal process for reviewing risk and control matters and reflecting these in remuneration outcomes at
both an individual and Group level. All material risk events (MREs) are reviewed by a dedicated group of senior colleagues in
Control Functions to ensure lessons are learned and appropriate actions are taken for accountable individuals. If necessary, a
deep dive will be commissioned to understand risk, control and conduct issues in a particular location or business area. The
most severe MREs are escalated for oversight by the Remuneration Committee. At year end, a summary of risk and control
matters will be reviewed and discussed to determine any impact to Group incentives. The outcomes of the 2023 reviews are
one component in the adjustment to the 2023 scorecard outcome as detailed on pages 196 and 197. Details of our approach to
risk adjustment, including our malus and clawback provisions, are provided on page 215.
119900 SSttaannddaarrdd CChhaarrtteerreedd –– AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22002233
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 191
Directors’
report
How does our directors’ remuneration policy address other key features set out in the
UK Corporate Governance Code?
Proportionality Predictability
• In line with our commitment to pay for performance, a • The range of possible rewards to individual executive
significant proportion of executive director pay is delivered directors is set out in the scenario charts on page 205 where
through incentives based on performance metrics aligned we also demonstrate the impact of a 50 per cent share
with our strategy. The Committee sets robust and stretching price appreciation over the three-year performance period
targets to ensure there is a clear link between Group of the LTIP.
performance and executive director awards.
• In addition to maximum award levels specified in our
• Executive directors’ interests are further aligned with remuneration policy, the value of incentive awards will vary
shareholders’ long-term interests through the deferred depending on achievement against specified performance
release of salary, annual incentive and LTIP awards over a targets and the share price at the time of delivery for the
period ranging from one to eight years. Incentive awards significant part of reward which is delivered in shares.
are also subject to clawback provisions for up to 10 years
from grant. Simplicity and clarity
• Shareholding requirements are in place for executive • Simplicity is a key driver for the structure of our executive
directors, requiring them to build and maintain a significant pay, subject to adherence to regulatory requirements
shareholding in Company shares while in employment and arising from operating as a UK regulated bank.
for a period of two years post-employment. Bill and Andy • Our remuneration structure comprises straightforward and
currently exceed their respective shareholding well-understood components. The purpose, structure,
requirements. alignment with strategy and consistency with arrangements
for the wider workforce are clearly set out in the
remuneration policy.
See pages 188 and 189 for further details
• We set and report our performance-related measures, targets
and outcomes in a clear, transparent and balanced way.
Directors’
report
How is our executive director remuneration aligned to stakeholder experience?
• Remuneration outcomes reflect key financial and • The same remuneration principles apply
non-financial performance delivered in the year. to executives and employees, including
consistent benefit and pension provision
• Variable remuneration awards are based on stretching
by location.
targets.
• A significant portion of executive remuneration is paid in See pages 188 and 189 for further details
shares and shareholding requirements apply.
• Annual incentives for executive directors
• Post-employment shareholding requirements
are based on the same scorecard used
further reinforce the importance of
to determine discretionary incentives
sustainable long-term performance.
across the Group.
• The Remuneration Committee
• In line with our approach to 2024 salary
Chair regularly engages with
increases, focusing on junior employees
shareholders on remuneration
and those in high inflation markets,
matters to seek feedback which
fixed pay for Bill and Diego will
helps guide decision-making.
remain unchanged.
Investors Employees
• Remuneration outcomes Executive • Remuneration outcomes
take into account risk, director from both annual incentive
control and conduct remuneration and LTIP awards consider
considerations. performance against
Society and sustainability objectives.
• Pay structures are aligned
Regulators and sustainability
to relevant best practice, • The Committee tracks
governments
including the application gender and ethnicity pay
of deferrals and malus/ gaps, and actively monitors
clawback. the actions being taken to
close them.
Clients
• Remuneration outcomes reflect performance delivered including client-related
performance objectives (e.g. improved client satisfaction).
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 191
Directors’ report Directors’ remuneration report
Committee at a glance
Committee composition
Who else attended Committee meetings in 2023?
The Group Chairman; Group Chief Executive; Group Chief
Shirish David Robin Maria Jasmine Linda Financial Officer; Group Chief Risk Officer; Group Head, HR;
Apte Conner Lawther, Ramos Whitbread1 Yueh, CBE2 Global Head, Performance, Reward and Benefits; Group Head,
(Chair) CBE Conduct, Financial Crime and Compliance; Group Company
Secretary; Chair of the Audit Committee; Group Head, Internal
Audit.
See pages 137 to 141 for biographical details of the
Committee members
1 Jasmine stepped down from the Committee on 3 May 2023
2 Linda joined the Committee on 1 January 2023
5/5 5/5 5/5 5/5 2/2 5/5
What are the main responsibilities of the How did the Committee spend their time
Committee? during their 2023 meetings?
The Committee is responsible for setting the principles,
parameters and governance framework for the Group’s Executive remuneration and policy
remuneration policy and overseeing its implementation.
This includes: 25%
• Determining the framework and policies for the
remuneration of the Group Chairman, the executive
directors and other senior management considering our Senior management remuneration
10%
Fair Pay Charter, wider workforce remuneration and
alignment with culture and conduct.
Group-wide reward, the Fair Pay
• Overseeing the alignment of reward, culture, the strategic Charter and pay diversity
priorities and our Stands. 25%
• Approving Group discretionary remuneration, including
adjustment for risk, control and conduct for current and
future risks. Business performance and
risk assessment review
• Overseeing the Fair Pay Charter.
20%
The Committee has written terms of reference that
can be viewed at sc.com/termsofreference
Shareholder engagement,
regulatory and governance
15%
5% Other, inc. Group Share Plans
C[[ ommittee focus During the year, the Committee determined the retirement
arrangements and remuneration arrangements for the outgoing
and incoming GCFO respectively, working to ensure appropriate
for 2023]]
arrangements were put in place to facilitate a smooth and
effective transition to the new GCFO.
Read more on page 184
192 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 193
Directors’
report
How did our shareholders vote?
The Committee Chair continues to
For Against Withheld
engage with shareholders to seek views
Advisory vote on the 2022 521,070,732 29,151,006 14,890,207 and feedback on key decisions the
remuneration report at 2023 94.7% 5.3% Committee takes each year. In 2024,
AGM1 shareholders will be consulted with on
the development of the new directors’
Binding vote to approve the 404,531,068 183,344,607 24,340,637
remuneration policy scheduled to be put
2022 directors’ remuneration 68.8% 31.2%
to shareholders for approval at the 2025
policy at 2022 AGM
AGM.
1 If withheld votes are considered as part of the overall voting outcome distribution, 92.2 per cent of
votes would have been ‘For’ the resolution
What advice does the Committee receive? How effective was the Committee in 2023?
PwC was re-appointed as the Committee’s remuneration The feedback from the internally conducted 2023
adviser in 2021. The Committee conducts a detailed review Committee effectiveness review was positive. The key
of potential advisers every three or four years. points raised and the action plan for 2024 are summarised
below.
PwC is a signatory to the voluntary remuneration consulting
Code of Conduct. It provides other services to the Group • The Committee performed well against an extensive
including assurance, advisory, consultancy and tax advice. agenda. The Chair works effectively, prioritising key issues
The Committee is satisfied the advice received was and allowing for the appropriate level of challenge and
objective and independent and that no potential or actual engagement.
conflict arose. The total fees paid to PwC (partly a fixed fee
• The Committee has a good composition of technical skills
and partly on a time and materials basis) was GBP148,175,
including understanding the work of other committees,
which included advice to the Committee relating to
with other Board members being drawn upon where
executive directors’ remuneration and regulatory matters.
needed.
The Group CFO and Chief Risk Officer regularly update the
• Positive commentary was given on the support received
Committee on finance and risk matters. The Committee
from internal specialists (e.g. human resources, finance,
manages conflicts of interest when receiving views from
risk) and PwC.
senior individuals on remuneration proposals and no
individual is involved in deciding their own pay.
2[[ 024 action plan]]
The 2024 action plan for the Committee reflects the recommendations from the effectiveness review and
continues to build on the progress made last year:
• Establish the Group’s position on the removal of the bonus cap.
• Develop the new 2025 directors’ remuneration policy.
• Follow up on Committee suggested training to be provided in 2024.
How does the Committee understand the views of our workforce?
The Committee recognises the importance of seeking feedback from colleagues
87% on remuneration matters to inform decision-making. The Culture and
Sustainability Committee (CSC) is responsible for the Group’s workforce
engagement programme and provides colleague feedback to the Remuneration
of colleagues responded to the Committee to inform remuneration decision-making.
Group’s engagement survey, My Voice,
The Board engages with and listens to the views of employees. In 2023, the Board
which seeks to understand colleague
sentiment in respect of performance hosted informal events with employees which provided an opportunity for the
management, the process of giving Board to understand how the Bank’s strategy and culture are being lived and
and receiving feedback and reward. embedded across the Group.
See our Culture and Sustainability Committee report on pages 174 to 176 and our Stakeholder
section on pages 54 to 64 for further information on our workforce engagement framework
Directors’ report Directors’ remuneration report
Group-wide remuneration
Our Fair Pay Charter
The Fair Pay Charter is the compass for Revising our Fair Pay Charter
our performance and reward strategy and Since the introduction of the Charter in 2017, our Group
priorities and the external environment have shifted.
outlines how we aim to ensure fairness in
our approach to reward. It supports our We have made significant progress in areas such as
living wage and have laid a foundation for a more
focus on being a great place to work and
consistent and transparent approach to remuneration,
the achievement of our strategic goals.
supporting equal pay and greater flexibility.
Together with broader human resources initiatives Building on this progress, our focus has now shifted
supporting diversity and inclusion, organisational and to better aligning our proposition to our values and
individual development, and the recognition of high evolving employee needs, while supporting the culture
performance, we are building a culture of excellence of excellence needed to drive long-term success
where, through innovation and continuous improvement, and maintaining the progress made to date.
every one of our colleagues can fulfil their potential.
The revised Charter serves to reiterate our commitment to
Full details of the Charter can be found in our Diversity, Equality and fair and equitable reward and hold ourselves accountable.
Inclusion Impact Report here: sc.com/diversityfairpayreport It reflects our latest priorities, focusing on four priority
areas, each critical to driving the Bank forward:
• Equal pay – we commit to offering equal pay for equal work
by market and do not tolerate unlawful discrimination.
• Purpose-led – we provide a holistic set of reward and
benefits that align with our valued behaviours and Stands.
• Competitive opportunities – we aim to pay colleagues
competitively.
• Performance driven – we are committed to motivating,
recognising and rewarding sustainable high performance.
Other key 2023 highlights
myPerformance Group-wide variable remuneration
We have continued to embed our new approach to To support our objective of embedding a high performance
performance management which is designed to motivate culture in the organisation, during 2023 the Committee
outperformance and deliver a culture of excellence. With this reviewed the effectiveness of our existing Target Total
new approach, we are creating a more transparent, real- Variable Compensation plan which c. 75 per cent of our
time feedback culture underpinned by continuous feedback, colleagues participate in.
coaching, and open two-way performance and development
For the 2023 performance year, to strengthen the link between
conversations with people leaders. Data gathered through
performance and pay, we allocated a greater proportion
sentiment surveys and metrics on goal setting, as well as
of our incentive pool for individual differentiation. Further
feedback and year-end review decisions have shown positive
changes will be communicated and implemented for the 2024
signs on achieving our aim to embed the behaviours of a high
performance year.
performance culture across the Bank. For example, more than
70 per cent of employees feel that myPerformance has had a
positive impact on their ability to perform at their best.
We will continue to work on areas such as further encouraging
upward feedback, upskilling people leaders and ensuring the
new approach is well understood Bank wide.
N[[ ew recognition platform]] Appreciate
As part of our drive to reinforce a high performance culture, in 2024 we have launched a new recognition platform,
Appreciate, enabling colleagues to recognise one another’s outstanding achievements, further promoting the
habit of recognising and celebrating excellence.
194 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 197
Directors’
report
Assessment of the 2023 scorecard – strategic measures
Clients (Network, Affluent, Mass)
Target Assessment
• Improve client satisfaction and client experience ratings. • Client satisfaction outperformed with strong loyalty and
• Deliver growth in qualified clients across Affluent, satisfaction ratings.
Private Banking and Wealth Management activity. • Substantially improved growth delivered across target
• Deliver network income growth in Corporate, markets, significantly exceeding our maximum target.
Commercial & Institutional Banking (CCIB). • Increased network income in CCIB to $6.9 billion ($5.2
• Grow value of Digital Ventures. billion in 2022).
• Mass market Retail growth through new to bank • Strong performance in Ventures with new customers
personal customers. approaching 1.8 million.
• Strong performance of Mass Retail with 2.3 million
active clients, exceeding our maximum target.
Weighting – 12% Outcome – 10%
Sustainability
Target Assessment
• Progress against the Group’s Sustainable Finance • Income targets from Sustainable Finance products
income targets and its aim to achieve net zero by 2050. exceeded at $720 million.
• Improve community engagement through employee • Community engagement exceeded our aspirational
volunteering participation. target with an employee participation rate of 61%.
Weighting – 8% Outcome – 8%
Enablers (Ways of Working and people)
Target Assessment
• Grow proportion of digitally initiated transactions and • Digital adoption through mobile channel take up above
digital sales adoption. targets as a result of focused efforts to drive customers
• Improve end-to-end speed to deliver change (from idea to mobile channel in major markets.
formation to commercialisation). • Speed to deliver improved by 6% and targets achieved.
• Improve organisational effectiveness. • Organisational effectiveness targets achieved.
• Improve employee engagement, diversity and inclusion. • Improved employee inclusion and engagement
outcomes based on the results of specific questions in
our employee survey, and an increase in number of
females in senior roles, achieving baseline levels.
Weighting – 8% Outcome – 5%
Risk and controls
Target Assessment
• Non-financial risk reduction. • Strong performance of non-financial risk reduction
• Self-identification of audit issues. across the Bank.
• Improved self-identification of audit issues with targets
exceeded in key areas and nearly 60% of all issues now
being self-identified.
Weighting – 12% Outcome – 11%
Our Stands: Accelerating Zero; Lifting Participation; Resetting Globalisation
• A holistic assessment of the embedding of our Stands showed good progress has been made across the Group with
all areas on track. No adjustment was made to the scorecard outcome.
No adjustment
Assessment of the 2023 scorecard – personal performance
The Committee considers areas of responsibility together with progress against key objectives for the year and personal
contribution to the Group scorecard outcome. This element focuses on measures that reflect real personal impact, such as
transformation of processes and improving the culture within the Bank. Key achievements against Bill’s and Andy’s personal
objectives are summarised in the tables on the next pages.
Directors’ report Directors’ remuneration report
Bill Winters
2023 has been a strong year for Bill in which he continued to lead the Group with passion and focus. Our positive financial
and strategic results have been significantly influenced by his leadership and focus on delivery. In particular, Bill has had an
extensive influence on our sustainability achievements, where we have exceeded many of our targets and continued to
enhance, update and implement our sustainability strategy (see more details on pages 66 to 79). Our achievement of RoTE of
10.1 per cent has followed a cultural embedding of the need to deliver sustainable improvement of the metric into the Group’s
psyche, making it an understandable and focused target for all.
Innovation
Goal Assessment
• Continue personal • The Bank is now recognised as a very strong innovator, driving improvements in its existing businesses and
push for innovation developing its Venture portfolio.
and simplification • Bill has increased his personal visibility during the year, actively promoting themes of innovation including
across the Group digitalisation, digital assets and AI.
• He was a keynote / panel speaker at the Hong Kong, Singapore and Dubai FinTech Festivals and Point Zero,
and is a key contributor to many climate organisations including the Net Zero Banking Alliance and Glasgow
Financial Alliance for Net Zero (GFANZ).
• As a core member of the World Bank’s Private Sector Investment Lab, Bill is providing his expertise to help the
Lab identify new approaches and recommendations that support the World Bank’s capital mobilisation in
support of emerging markets.
• Bill has continued his push for further efficiency and simplification, establishing our Operating Excellence
programme to improve our ability to get things done. This has resulted in substantial reductions in
turnaround time in key onboarding processes with improved customer satisfaction and material cost saves.
• Bill has personally embraced the transformation of our Technology, Transformation and Operations business
which is generating substantial reduction in operating risk and cost savings.
• Through Tech Simplification, $66.5 million has been secured in 2023 in sustainable saves, with further saves
forecast for future years.
• Bill is a leading advocate for our Ventures business, for which 300 new venture ideas have been reviewed,
10 ventures are currently in incubation, 5 are in acceleration, 5 have been commercially launched during 2023
and two have been profitably exited.
Financial performance
• Grow other sources • Bill continues to actively drive for further growth to support sustainable and sustained performance, through
of income in our both innovation and expansion in traditional business areas, and has personally engaged in our growth
footprint objectives across key markets.
• In CCIB, our risk-weighted assets optimisation target between 2022-2024 has been achieved ahead of
target, creating capacity for growth opportunities.
• Strong progress has been made in establishing the Group as a partner of choice bridging banking and
technology/non-banking sectors, with over 20 fully active partnerships in place leading to asset and
profitable income growth.
• Bill participated in the B20 and co-Chaired the UK-India Financial Partnership, and took part in a number of
client engagement events during the year.
• 43 Sustainable Finance products are now on offer (32 in 2022) and we have seen momentum in the transition
finance team with a number of key firsts and incremental deals.
• He has supported the expansion of Ventures into new markets and the launch of our Digital Assets Joint
Venture with SBI Holdings in the UAE following that in Japan.
Risk and controls
• Further improve the • Bill remains focused on improving the Group’s risk culture and frameworks through personal participation in
Group’s risk and relevant forums and a strong tone from the top.
control framework, • He has overseen good progress on improving our risk culture, with recognition from our regulators that
accelerating dedicated work is promoting a healthier risk culture.
progress and • Bill played a crucial role in the successful delivery of an improved Cyber Risk and control framework.
embedding a • We have extended our capabilities in New Economy risk origination and management, keeping pace with
robust preventative business growth.
risk culture • We have managed through various episodes of sovereign risk stresses in our markets with good results.
People and culture
• Continue drive • Bill has instilled a high performance culture underpinned by teamwork and innovation. He has been vocal in
for a high supporting the changes we have made to embed a culture of high-quality feedback, including role-
performance modelling with his own team.
culture, including • Through our employee survey, we have seen our employee net promoter score (eNPS) (a way of measuring
the development whether employees would recommend working for the Bank) record its biggest ever increase against a prior
of internal talent year outcome that was our highest ever result.
and effective • In addition, all dimensions of our employee value proposition recorded a year-on-year increase in the survey,
succession most to a 5-year ‘high-water mark’.
planning • He has continued the development of Management Team members, with strong hires into the team and
overseeing the effective and smooth succession of GCFO from Andy to Diego.
• The Management Team is now more than 50% female.
• Bill has continued to focus on internal talent, with the development of internal successors for key roles.
Weighting – 10% Outcome – 9%
198 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 199
Directors’
report
Andy Halford
Having served over nine years as our Group Chief Financial Officer, Andy stepped down from the Board on 2 January 2024.
Throughout his tenure and during 2023, Andy provided strong financial leadership to the Bank and served as an effective
partner to Bill, the Management Team and the Board. Andy leaves the Board on track to deliver our external financial targets
and the Group strategy. In particular, strong progress has been made in the year across our regulatory projects including
substantial improvements in resolution planning. Andy actively supported the on-boarding and induction of the incoming
GCFO and ensured a smooth transition period.
Ways of Working
Goal Assessment
• Drive collaboration • Andy has played a significant role in driving collaboration across the Finance function
within the Finance working closely with business stakeholders to deliver the Group’s corporate plan with
function across positive endorsement received from the Board.
segments and • He played a key role in driving the articulation of the strategic priorities for the Group
markets which have been translated into a set of actionable strategic plans through
collaborating with colleagues across segments and markets.
• Andy has continued to drive improvements in the Finance control environment through
investments in the Group’s regulatory reporting infrastructure.
• He has been instrumental in driving the upgrade of the financial systems used across
• Continue to the Group through a multi-year programme which is targeting to substantially
improve financial complete at the end of 2024.
reporting
• He has continued to maintain open and transparent relationships with regulators and
procedures
kept them abreast of our progress on regulatory topics including Group resolvability
and regulatory reporting remediation.
• Andy partnered with the Chief Sustainability Office to redesign the content to be
included in the annual report and uplifted the controls with regards to Sustainability
including key KPIs.
Financial performance
• Deliver the focus on • Andy has continued to actively manage the Group’s cost base to ensure positive jaws.
achieving target • He has played a significant role in raising awareness of RoTE as a central financial
RoTE and other metric across the Bank.
strategic objectives
• He was key to driving maximum value from the Group’s exit from a number of markets
in the Africa and Middle East region and the sale of our Aviation Finance business.
• Andy played an active role in driving our efforts to diversify the footprint of our
shareholders to focus on Asia, through targeted investor events in Asia.
• He has been an active Board member contributing on key initiatives outside his core
areas of finance expertise, including process simplification and enhancing governance
and oversight of Group investments.
• Andy has led a multi-year upgrade and rationalisation of the Bank’s property portfolio,
enhancing client and employees’ experience and delivering on the Bank’s net zero
commitments.
Weighting – 10% Outcome – 8%
Directors’ report Directors’ remuneration report
LTIP awards
The LTIP values included in the single total figure of remuneration for 2023 are based on the awards that will be subject to final
performance testing in March 2024. These awards were granted in 2021 with a face value of 120 per cent of fixed pay, to
incentivise the achievement of the Group’s priorities over the three-year period 2021 to 2023. The awards are share-based and
are subject to the performance targets set out below which were set when the awards were granted and have not been
adjusted since. A conduct gateway requirement must be met before any awards vest.
The Committee concluded that Bill and Andy exhibited appropriate conduct during the performance period and, therefore, the
conduct gateway was met.
Award share price (£) Valuation share price (£) 2021-23 LTIP projected outcome (£)
Bill Winters 4.90 6.72 3,340,237
Andy Halford 4.90 6.72 2,135,206
See page 195 for the value attributable to share price growth in the single total figure of remuneration
RoTE performance of 10.1 per cent was achieved, resulting in a 30 per cent outcome and relative TSR is projected to be ranked
between median and upper quartile resulting in a projected outcome of 9 per cent. The Committee considered performance
against the sustainability and strategic proof points set out in the table below and determined that an outcome of 27 per cent
was appropriate. Based on these assessments, the total projected performance outcome is 66 per cent. The final relative TSR
performance will be assessed in March 2024 and any change to the overall outcome will be reported in the 2024 directors’
remuneration report.
The awards will vest pro rata over 2024 to 2028 and the shares will be subject to a 12-month retention period post-vesting. Malus
and clawback provisions apply.
Projected outcome
Minimum Maximum
performance performance Assessment of Outcome Projected
Measure Weighting (25% outcome) (100% outcome) achievement status outcome
RoTE1 in 2023 plus CET12 30% 6% 10% RoTE 10.1% and CET1 Confirmed 30%
underpin of the higher 14.1%
of 13% or the minimum
regulatory requirement
Relative TSR 30% Median Upper quartile Currently estimated Projected3 9%
performance against the between median and
peer group upper quartile
Sustainability 15% Targets set for sustainability Improved Confirmed 13%
measures linked to the business performance against
strategy our strategic priorities
Strategic measures 25% Targets set for strategic measures Improved Confirmed 14%
linked to the business strategy performance against
our strategic priorities
Total 2021-23 LTIP awards projected outcomes 66%
1 Underlying RoTE represents the ratio of the current year’s profit available for distribution to ordinary shareholders, to the weighted average ordinary shareholders’
equity less the average goodwill and intangibles for the reporting period. Underlying RoTE normally excludes regulatory fines but, for remuneration purposes, this
would be subject to review by the Committee
2 The CET1 underpin was set at the higher of 13 per cent or the minimum regulatory level at 31 December 2023. In addition, the Committee has the discretion to take
into account at the end of the performance period any changes in regulatory capital and risk-weighted asset requirements that might have been announced and
implemented after the start of the performance period
3 TSR performance will be assessed three years from the date of award, in March 2024, making the projected outcome subject to change
Assessment of non-financial measures
Sustainable finance
Proof point Assessment
• Develop and implement a framework to align our • Delivered all milestones against publicly stated net zero
financial services with net zero emissions by 2050, roadmap including setting an Oil & Gas absolute emissions
and deliver 2023 targets consistent with that plan. target.
• Provide $35 billion (cumulative) worth of project • Provided financing in excess of $40 billion.
financing services, M&A advisory, debt structuring, • Targets achieved and are on track to meet the longer-term
transaction banking and lending services for 10-year commitment of $300 billion.
renewable energy that align to our verified Green and
Sustainable Product Framework.
• Only provide financial services to clients who are less • Exited 54 entities that derived >80% of income from
than 80% dependent on earnings from thermal coal thermal coal and those that remain have exit plans
(based on % EBITDA at group level). agreed/in progress based on contractual obligations.
200 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 201
Directors’
report
Responsible company
Proof point Assessment
• Reduction in property emissions of 10% annually. • Achieved.
• Reduction of flight emissions of 25%. • Achieved with a 36% reduction in flight emissions against
our 2019 baseline.
• Offset 95% of all residual emissions from our • Successfully completed our carbon credit purchases
operations. against our residual operating emissions since 2021.
Clients
Proof point Assessment
• Improve client satisfaction rating evidenced in surveys • Significantly improved performance in all three years, with
and internal benchmarks. consumer client satisfaction metric of 56.6%, increased
from 29.5% in 2020.
• Deliver growth in qualified clients across Private, • Improved growth in qualified clients across our Affluent
Priority & Premium Banking, and Wealth business, with strong performance achieved in 2023.
Management.
• Deliver network income growth in CCIB. • Exceeded targets in 2023 ($6.9 billion) following strong
performance in 2022 and improving on performance in 2021
(from $4.4 billion in 2020).
• Add more than 2 million new customers via digital • Added 1.8 million new customers by the end of 2023
partnerships, platforms and technologies. following weaker performance in 2022 and 2021.
Enablers
Proof point Assessment
• Drive culture of innovation to generate new revenues. • 36% of Group revenue coming from innovation, digital and
transformation revenue streams
• Adopt new ways of working that result in quicker • Speed of decision-making and delivery have improved in
decision-making and delivery. each of the three years including ‘speed to value’, which
measures time from ideation until customer go-live.
• Increase senior female representation to 33%. • Increase in the number of females in senior roles by 3 ppt
over the three years to 32.5%.
• Increase our culture of inclusion score from 81% to 84% • Increased by 1.5 ppt over the three years to 83.2%.
(internal index).
Risk and controls
Proof point Assessment
• Maintain effective risk and control governance. • Improved performance of risk reduction across the Bank
and good progress in embedding a healthier risk culture.
• Successfully deliver milestones within the Cyber Risk • Continued reduction of Cyber Risk including the delivery of
management plan. information and Cyber security strategic plan with all
objectives achieved.
W[[ indfall gains]]
When making LTIP awards the Committee reviews the proposed size of the award and considers the change in share price in
the period leading up to the award compared with the share price when awards were made in the previous year. A significant
fall in share price will increase the overall number of shares being awarded, and the Committee considers this, being mindful
of the potential for a ‘windfall gain’.
For awards made in 2021 the Committee reviewed the change in share price compared with the previous year and, being
comfortable that the change was not significant, at -5.7 per cent, determined not to adjust the size of the awards.
The Committee further reviews any increase in share price at the end of the performance period, when awards are due to
vest, and considers potential outcomes to determine if any adjustment should be made where an increase in share price is
not reflective of a corresponding improvement in underlying financial performance. To date no adjustments have been made.
Directors’ report Directors’ remuneration report
Directors’ remuneration in 2023: LTIP awards
continued
LTIP awards for the executive directors to be granted in 2024
Based on Group and individual performance during 2023 awards for the performance year will be granted in March 2024 at the
maximum amount under the 2022 directors’ remuneration policy. Performance measures are aligned to our strategic priorities.
In line with his retirement arrangements, Andy Halford is not eligible for this LTIP award.
Award as % of salary Award value on grant (£) Award value on vesting (£)
Bill Winters 132% 3,322,440 To be determined based on the level of performance
achieved at the end of the three-year period against the
Diego De Giorgi 132% 2,178,000 performance measures and the future share price.
The RoTE target range for the awards is increased to 10 to 13 per cent, versus 10 to 12.5 per cent for the 2023-25 awards, reflecting
the progress in RoTE achieved in 2023 and our increased ambition of 12.5 per cent by 2026.
Peer group for the relative TSR measure in the 2024-26 LTIP
The peer group of companies selected for the relative TSR performance calculation are those with generally comparable
business activities, size or geographic spread to Standard Chartered or with which we compete for investor funds and
talent. The group is reviewed annually, prior to new LTIP awards being made and following the 2023 review the group for
the 2024-26 LTIP awards has been updated. Bank of China, ICBC and State Bank of India are no longer considered to be
comparable peers as they are state-owned banks which have significantly different purpose, strategies and performance
profiles. In addition, Credit Suisse has been removed as it ceased public trading during 2023.
TSR is measured in sterling for each company and the data is averaged over a month at the start and end of the three-year
measurement period which starts from the date of grant.
Banco Santander DBS Group Oversea Chinese Banking Corporation
Bank of America Deutsche Bank Société Générale
Bank of East Asia HSBC Standard Bank
Barclays ICICI UBS
BNP Paribas JPMorgan Chase United Overseas Bank
Citigroup KB Financial Group
Financial measures for 2024-26 LTIP awards
Minimum Between minimum Maximum performance
Measure Weighting performance (25%) and maximum performance (100%)
RoTE1 in 2026 with a 30% 10% Straight-line assessment 13%
CET12 of the higher of between minimum and
13% or the minimum maximum
regulatory
requirement
Relative TSR 30% Median Straight-line assessment Upper quartile
performance against between peer companies
peer group positioned immediately
above and below the Group
1 Underlying RoTE represents the ratio of the current year’s underlying operating profit attributable to ordinary shareholders to the weighted average ordinary
shareholders’ equity less the average goodwill and intangibles for the reporting period. Underlying RoTE normally excludes regulatory fines and certain other
adjustments but, for remuneration purposes, such adjustments are subject to review by the Committee
2 The CET1 underpin will be set at the higher of 13 per cent or the minimum regulatory level as of 31 December 2026. In addition, the Committee has the discretion to
take into account at the end of the performance period any changes in regulatory capital and risk-weighted asset requirements that might have been
announced and implemented after the start of the performance period, for example in relation to Basel IV
Non-financial measures for 2024-26 LTIP awards
Environmental, social and governance
• Accelerating Zero: Progress towards our 2030 Sustainable Finance mobilisation target in each of the three performance
years.
• Actively contributing to the development of the sustainability ecosystem through global partnerships, initiatives and
cross-sector collaborations.
• Lifting participation: Year-on year growth in financing activity with female and/or small and medium enterprise (SME)
clients and other underserved populations.
• Resetting Globalisation: Maintaining our presence and supporting international/cross border trade in key developing
markets that we serve.
• Improve eNPS target.
• Increase senior female representation and increase our ‘culture of inclusion’ (internal index).
Weighting – 25%
202 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Directors’ report Directors’ remuneration report
2024 policy implementation for directors
continued
2024 annual incentive scorecard
Our annual incentive scorecard reflects our strategic priorities. Targets are set annually by the Committee based on the Group’s
annual financial plans and strategic priorities. Targets and performance achieved will be disclosed retrospectively in the 2024
Annual Report due to commercial sensitivity.
Financial measures make up 50 per cent of the scorecard. The Committee assesses strategic and personal measures using a
quantitative and qualitative framework.
2024 scorecard – financial measures
Measure Weighting Target
Income1 9%
CCIB Sustainable Finance Income 3%
• Targets to be disclosed retrospectively
Costs 8%
RoTE2 with a CET13 underpin of the higher of 13% or the 30%
minimum regulatory requirement
1 The Group’s reported performance is adjusted for profits or losses of a capital nature, amounts consequent to investment transactions driven by strategic intent,
other infrequent and/or exceptional transactions that are significant or material in the context of the Group’s normal business earnings for the period and items
which management and investors would ordinarily identify separately when assessing underlying performance period by period
2 Underlying RoTE represents the ratio of the current year’s underlying operating profit attributable to ordinary shareholders to the weighted average ordinary
shareholders’ equity less the average goodwill and intangibles for the reporting period. Underlying RoTE normally excludes regulatory fines and certain other
adjustments but, for remuneration purposes, such adjustments are subject to review by the Committee
3 The CET1 underpin will be set at the higher of 13 per cent or the minimum regulatory level as at 31 December 2024. In addition, the Committee has the discretion
to take into account at the end of the performance period any changes in regulatory capital and risk-weighted asset requirements that might have been
announced and implemented after the start of the performance period
2024 scorecard – strategic measures
Clients (Network, Affluent, Mass)
Target
• Improve client satisfaction and client experience ratings.
• Deliver cross border income growth in CCIB.
• Deliver network growth in qualified clients across Affluent activity. Weighting – 12%
• Grow value of Ventures.
• Mass market Retail growth through new to bank personal customers.
Sustainability
Target
• Meeting key milestones through building infrastructure relating to client, transaction and
central data for delivering on our net zero ambition.
• Reducing our financed emissions for key sectors in line with our risk appetite and based on Weighting – 4%
interim 2030 sectoral targets.
• Reducing Scope 1 and 2 emissions in line with our operational net zero target by 2025.
Productivity and transformation
Target
• Grow proportion of digitally initiated transactions and digital sales adoption.
• Transformational Change: % of transformation change programmes on track. Weighting – 8%
• Productivity: Increase Operating Profit less Credit Impairment per FTE.
People and culture
Target
• Improve employee engagement as evidenced in our annual My Voice survey.
• Improve senior female representation to support reaching 35% by 2025. Weighting – 4%
• Improve our ‘culture of inclusion’ score (internal index).
206 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 217
Directors’
report
Other disclosures
The Directors’ report for the year ended 31 December 2023 Principal activities
comprises pages 134 to 229 of this report (together with the We are a leading international banking group, with over
sections of the Annual Report incorporated by reference). 170 years of history. Our unique geographical footprint in Asia,
The Company has chosen, in accordance with section 414C(11) Africa and the Middle East helps connect the world’s most
of the Companies Act 2006, and as noted in this Directors’ dynamic markets. Our purpose is to drive commerce and
report, to include certain matters in its Strategic report that prosperity through our unique diversity. The Group’s roots in
would otherwise be disclosed in this Directors’ report. Both the trade finance and commercial banking have been at the core
Strategic report and the Directors’ report have been drawn up of its success throughout its history, but the Group is now more
and presented in accordance with English company law, and broadly based across Consumer, Private and Business Banking
the liabilities of the directors in connection with that report and Ventures. The Group operates in the UK and overseas
shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by through a number of subsidiaries, branches and offices.
such law. Other information to be disclosed in the Directors’
Further details on our business, including key performance indicators,
report is given in this section. In addition to the requirements
can be found within the Strategic report on pages 2 to 89
set out in the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules
relating to the Annual Report, information required by UK
Fair, balanced and understandable
Listing Rule 9.8.4 to be included in the Annual Report, where
On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee has reviewed
applicable, is set out in the table below and cross-referenced.
the Annual Report and the process by which the Group
believes that the Annual Report is fair, balanced and
Information to be included in the Annual Report
understandable and provides the information necessary
(UK Listing Rules 9.8.4)
for shareholders to assess the position and performance,
Relevant Listing Rule Pages
strategy and business model of the Group. Following its
LR 9.8.4 (1) (2) (4-11) (14) (A) (B) N/A review, the Audit Committee has advised the Board that
LR 9.8.4 (12-13) 439 such a statement can be made in the Annual Report.
UK Corporate Governance Code compliance
The table below contains examples of where the Company has applied the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code
in this Annual Report.
A copy of the UK Corporate Governance Code can be found at frc.org.uk
Principles Pages/reference
Board leadership A – Promoting long-term sustainable success and value 2 to 89, and 137 to 141
and company B – Purpose, value, strategy and alignment with culture 2 and 3, 24 and 25, 130 and 225
purpose
C – Performance measures, controls and risk management 14 and 15, and 314 to 319
D – Shareholder and other stakeholder engagement 54 to 64, and 157 to 161
E – Workforce policies and practices 60 to 64
Division of F – Chair role and responsibilities 151 to 153, and 155 to 156
responsibilities G – Board roles and responsibilities 151
H – Non-executive directors’ role and capacity 151
I – Board effectiveness and efficiency 155 to 156
Composition, J – Board appointments and succession plans 179
succession and K – Board skills, experience, knowledge and tenure 137 to 141
evaluation
L – Board evaluation of composition, diversity and effectiveness 153, 155 and 156
Audit, risk and M – Independence and effectiveness of internal and external audit functions,
internal control integrity of financial and narrative statements 166
N – Fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Company’s position
and prospects 164
O – Risk management and internal controls 314 to 319
Remuneration P – Remuneration policies and practices 182 to 216
Q – Procedure for developing remuneration policy Remuneration Committee
Terms of Reference
R – Independent judgement and discretion when authorising remuneration Remuneration Committee
outcomes Terms of Reference
The Remuneration Committee has written Terms of Reference that can be viewed at sc.com/termsofreference
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 221
Directors’
report
The Rules are intended to ensure that there is no favourable The Company confirms that:
treatment to Temasek or its associates to the detriment of
• The revenue banking transactions entered into with
other shareholders in the Company. Unless transactions
Temasek and its associates in 2023 were below the
between the Group and Temasek or its associates are
5 per cent threshold for the revenue ratio test under the
specifically exempt under the Rules or are subject to a specific
HK Listing Rules; and
waiver, they may require a combination of announcements,
reporting and independent shareholders’ approval. • It will continue to monitor revenue banking transactions
with Temasek during the three years ending 31 December
On 12 November 2021, the HKEx extended a waiver (the
2024 to ensure that the 5 per cent threshold for the revenue
“Waiver”) it previously granted to the Company for the
ratio will not be exceeded.
revenue banking transactions with Temasek which do not fall
under the passive investor exemption (“the Passive Investor The Company therefore satisfied the conditions of the Waiver.
Exemption”) under Rules 14A.99 and 14A.100 of the HK Listing
Rules. Under the Waiver, the HKEx agreed to waive the Fixed assets
announcement requirement, the requirements to enter into Details of additions to fixed assets are presented in Note 18
written agreements and to set annual caps, and the annual to the financial statements.
report disclosure (including annual review) requirements
under Chapter 14A of the HK Listing Rules for the three-year
Loan capital
period ending 31 December 2024 on the conditions that:
Details of the loan capital of the Company and its subsidiaries
a) T he Company will disclose details of the Waiver (including are set out in Notes 22 and 27 to the financial statements.
nature of the revenue banking transactions with Temasek
and reasons for the Waiver) in subsequent annual reports; Debenture issues and equity-linked agreements
and
During the financial year ended 31 December 2023, the
b) T he Company will continue to monitor the revenue banking Company made no issuance of debentures. Further details
transactions with Temasek during the three years ending of the equity-linked agreements the Group entered into can
31 December 2024 to ensure that the 5 per cent threshold be found in Note 28 to financial statements.
for the revenue ratio will not be exceeded.
Risk management1
The main reasons for seeking the Waiver were:
The Board is responsible for maintaining and reviewing the
• The nature and terms of revenue banking transactions effectiveness of the risk management system. An ongoing
may vary and evolve over time; having fixed-term written process for identifying, evaluating and managing the
agreements would not be suitable to accommodate the significant risks that we face is in place. The Board is satisfied
various banking needs of the Company’s customers that this process constitutes a robust assessment of all of the
(including Temasek) and would be impractical and principal risks, topical and emerging risks and integrated risks
unduly burdensome. facing the Group, including those that would threaten its
business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
• It would be impracticable to estimate and determine an
annual cap on the revenue banking transactions with 1 The Group’s Risk Management Framework and System of Internal Control
applies only to wholly controlled subsidiaries of the Group, and not to
Temasek as the volume and aggregate value of each
Associates, Joint Ventures or Structured Entities of the Group.
transaction are uncertain and unknown to the Company
Key areas of risk on financial instruments for the directors
as a banking group due to multiple factors including
included the impairment of loans and advances and
market driven factors.
valuation of financial instruments held at fair value. This risk
• The revenues generated from revenue banking transactions assessment and management is explained further in the
were insignificant. Without a waiver from the HKEx or an Audit Committee Key areas and Action taken on pages 163
applicable exemption, these transactions would be subject and 164.
to various percentage ratio tests which cater for different
The Risk review and Capital review on pages 44 to 51, and 314 to 337
types of connected transactions and as such may produce sets out the principal risks, topical and emerging risks and integrated
anomalous results. risks, our approach to risk management, including our risk management
principles, an overview of our Enterprise Risk Management Framework
As a result of the Passive Investor Exemption and the Waiver, and the risk management and governance practices for each principal
the vast majority of the Company’s transactions with Temasek risk type. The Board-approved Risk Appetite Statement can be found
on pages 47, and 314 to 337
and its associates fall outside of the connected transactions
regime. However, non-revenue transactions with Temasek or In accordance with Article 435(1)(e) of the Disclosure (CRR)
any of its associates continue to be subject to monitoring for Part of the PRA Rulebook, the Board Risk Committee, on
connected transaction issues. behalf of the Board, has considered the adequacy of the risk
management arrangements of the Group and has sought
and received assurance that the risk management systems
in place are adequate with regard to the Group’s profile
and strategy.
Directors’ report Other disclosures
Internal control2 Delegated authorities are documented and communicated.
The Board is responsible for maintaining and reviewing the Executive risk committees regularly review the Group’s risk
effectiveness of the internal control system. Its effectiveness profile. The performance of the Group’s businesses is reported
is reviewed regularly by the Board, its committees, the regularly to senior management and the Board. Performance
Management Team and Group Internal Audit. trends and forecasts, as well as actual performance against
budgets and prior periods, are monitored closely. Group
For the year ended 31 December 2023, the Board Risk financial information is prepared in accordance with
Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s UK-adopted International Accounting Standards and
system of internal control and discussed a report on the 2024 International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by
annual risk and control self-assessment. Group Internal Audit the European Union, and financial reporting is subject to the
represents the third line of defence and provides independent Group’s control framework for reconciliation processes.
assurance of the effectiveness of management’s control of
business activities (the first line) and of the control processes Operational procedures and controls have been established
maintained by the Risk Framework Owners and Policy Owners to facilitate complete, accurate and timely processing of
(the second line). The audit programme includes obtaining transactions and the safeguarding of assets. These controls
an understanding of the processes and systems under audit include appropriate segregation of duties, the regular
review, evaluating the design of controls, and testing the reconciliation of accounts and the valuation of assets and
operating effectiveness and outcomes of key controls. positions. In respect of handling inside information, we have
The work of Group Internal Audit is focused on the areas applied controls to help ensure only those explicitly required
of greatest risk as determined by a risk-based assessment receive inside information as well as controls regarding the
methodology. The Board considers the internal control onward dissemination of inside information. Controls are also
systems of the Company to be effective and adequate. in place to approve and review dealings in the Company’s
shares. Such systems and controls are designed to manage
2 The Group’s Risk Management Framework and System of Internal Control
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business
applies only to wholly controlled subsidiaries of the Group, and not to
Associates, Joint Ventures or Structured Entities of the Group. objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute
Group Internal Audit reports regularly to the Audit Committee, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
the Group Chairman and the Group Chief Executive; and the
Group Head, Internal Audit reports directly to the Chair of the Employee policies and engagement
Audit Committee and administratively to the Group Chief We work hard to ensure that our employees are kept informed
Executive. The findings of all adverse audits are reported to about matters affecting or of interest to them, and more
the Audit Committee, the Group Chairman and the Group importantly that they have opportunities to provide feedback
Chief Executive where immediate corrective action is required. and engage in a dialogue.
The Board Risk Committee is responsible for exercising We strive to listen and act on feedback from colleagues to
oversight, on behalf of the Board, of the key risks of the Group. ensure internal communications are timely, informative,
It reviews the Group’s Risk Appetite Statement and Enterprise meaningful, and in support of the Group’s strategy and
Risk Management Framework and makes recommendations transformation. In November 2023, we launched our new
to the Board. The Audit Committee is responsible for oversight employee communications platform – Pulse. Pulse will become
and advice to the Board on matters relating to financial, our primary internal communications channel that will
non-financial and narrative reporting. The Committee’s role is allow colleagues to receive key dynamic updates that are
to review, on behalf of the Board, the Group’s internal controls personalised by role and location, sign up for events, provide
including internal financial controls. The Audit Committee feedback, and navigate to other internal platforms. In
receives and discusses a paper on the internal controls for addition to targeted digital communications, we also deploy
financial books and records. audio and video calls, virtual and face-to-face townhalls,
and other staff engagement and recognition events.
The risk management approach starting on page 314 describes the
Group’s risk management oversight committee structure. To continue to improve the way we communicate and
ensure our employee communications remain relevant,
Our business is conducted within a developed control
we also periodically analyse and measure the impact
framework, underpinned by policy statements and standards.
of our communications through a range of survey and
There are written policies and standards designed to ensure
feedback tools.
the identification and management of risk, including Credit
Risk, Traded Risk, Treasury Risk, Operational and Technology Our senior leaders and people leaders play a critical role in
Risk, Information and Cyber Security Risk, Compliance Risk, engaging our teams across the network, ensuring that they
Financial Crime Risk, Model Risk and Reputational and are kept up to date on key business developments related to
Sustainability Risk. This framework incorporates the Group’s our performance and strategy. We offer additional support
internal controls on financial reporting. The Board has to our people leaders with specific calls and communications
established a management structure that clearly defines packs to help them provide context and guidance to their
roles, responsibilities and reporting lines. team members to better understand their role in executing
and delivering the Group’s strategy.
222 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 223
Directors’
report
Across the organisation, regular team meetings with people The Group Grievance Standard provides a formal framework
leaders, one-to-one conversations and various management for dealing with concerns that employees have in relation
meetings provide an important platform for colleagues to their employment or another colleague, which affect
to discuss and clarify key issues. Regular performance them directly, and cannot be resolved through informal
conversations provide the opportunity to discuss how mechanisms, such as counselling, coaching or mediation.
individuals, the team and the business area have contributed This can include concerns related to bullying, harassment,
to our overall performance and how any recognition and discrimination and victimisation, as well as concerns regarding
reward relate to this. The Group’s senior leadership also conditions of employment (for example, working practices or
regularly shares global, business, function, region and market the working environment).
updates on performance, strategy, structural changes, HR
Employees can raise grievances to their People Leader or a
programmes, community involvement and other campaigns.
Human Resources (HR) Representative. The global process for
The Board also engages with and listens to the views of
addressing grievances involves an HR representative and a
the workforce through several sources, including through
member of the business reviewing the grievance, conducting
interactive engagement sessions. More information can be
fact finding into the grievance and providing a written
found on page 161 in the Directors’ report.
outcome to the aggrieved employee. Where employees raise
Employees past, present and future can follow our progress concerns regarding alleged wrongdoing which does not
through the Group’s LinkedIn network and Facebook page, pertain to those employees themselves, or in circumstances
as well as other social network channels including Instagram, where the alleged wrongdoing does pertain to the employees
which collectively have over 2.7 million followers. themselves but they do not wish to raise a grievance, such
concerns are investigated in accordance with the Group
The diverse range of internal and external communication
Investigations Standard.
tools and channels we have put in place aim to ensure that all
colleagues receive timely and relevant information to support If a grievance or investigation is upheld, the next steps
their effectiveness. might include remedying a policy or process, or initiating a
disciplinary review of the conduct of the colleague who is the The wellbeing of our employees is central to our thinking
subject of the concern. The Group Grievance Standard and
about benefits and support, so that they can thrive at work
accompanying process is reviewed on a periodic basis in
and in their personal lives. Our Group minimum standards
consultation with stakeholders across HR, Legal, Compliance
provide employees with a range of flexible working options,
and Shared Investigative Services. Grievance trends are
in relation to both location and working patterns. In terms of
reviewed on a quarterly basis and action is taken to address
leave, employees are provided with at least 30 days’ leave
any concerning trends.
(through annual leave and public holidays), and new parents
are provided a minimum of 20 calendar weeks’ fully paid There is a distinct Group Speaking Up Policy and Standard
leave irrespective of gender, relationship status or how a which covers instances where an employee wishes to ‘blow
child comes to permanently join a family. These are above the the whistle’ on actual, planned or potential wrongdoing by
International Labour Organisation’s (ILO) minimum standards. another employee or the Group.
We seek to build productive and enduring partnerships with The Group is committed to creating a fair, consistent and
various employee representative bodies (including unions transparent approach to making decisions in a disciplinary
and work councils). In our recognition and interactions, we context. This commitment is codified in our Fair Accountability
are heavily influenced by the 1948 United Nations Universal Principles, which underpin our Group Disciplinary Standard.
Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), and several ILO Dismissals due to misconduct issues and/or performance
conventions including the Right to Organise and Collective (where required by law to follow a disciplinary process) are
Bargaining Convention, 1949 (No. 98) and the Freedom governed by the Group Disciplinary Standard. Where local
of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise law or regulation requires a different process with regards to
Convention, 1948 (No. 87). 12.6 per cent of employees, across dismissals and other disciplinary outcomes, we have country
20 markets, have collective representation through unions variances in place.
or employee representative bodies. The working conditions
and terms of employment of other employees are based
on our Group and country policies, and in accordance with
individual employment contracts issued by the Group.
Directors’ report Other disclosures
Our Group Diversity and Inclusion Standard has been We follow the International Labour Organisation (ILO) code
developed to ensure a respectful workplace, with fair and of practice on recording and notification of occupational
equal treatment, diversity and inclusion, and the provision of accidents and diseases, and guidance published by the
opportunities for employees to participate fully and reach UK Health and Safety Executive (HSE), and ensure that
their full potential in an appropriate working environment. we meet all local Health and Safety (H&S) regulatory
The Group aims to provide equality of opportunity for all, reporting requirements. We record and report all work-
protect the dignity of employees and promote respect at related illness and injuries, including from sub-contractors,
work. All individuals are entitled to be treated with dignity visitors and clients.
and respect, and to be free from harassment, bullying,
HSW performance and risks are reported annually to the
discrimination and victimisation. This helps to support
Group Risk Committee and Board Risk Committee. We use an
productive working conditions, decreased staff attrition,
H&S management system and local regulatory compliance
positive employee morale and engagement, maintains
tracker across all countries to ensure a consistently high level
employee wellbeing, and reduces people-related risk.
of H&S reporting and compliance for all our colleagues
All colleagues are responsible for fostering an inclusive
and clients.
culture where individuality and differing skills, capabilities
and experience are understood, respected and valued. The Group sponsors medical and healthcare services for
All colleagues, consultants, contractors, volunteers, all employees, except in markets where cover is provided
interns, casual workers and agency workers are required through State-mandated healthcare, which represent less
to comply with the Standard, including conducting than 0.6 per cent of the Group’s employees.
themselves in a manner that demonstrates appropriate,
Across the Group, support for employee mental wellbeing
non-discriminatory behaviours.
is available. All employees have access to professional
We do not accept unlawful discrimination in our recruitment counselling via our Employee Assistance Programme, as well
or employment practices on any grounds including but not as to more proactive mental health support through our
limited to: sex, race, colour, nationality, ethnicity, national or holistic wellbeing app and wellbeing platform. Our global
indigenous origin, disability, age, marital or civil partner status, Mental Health First Aid (MHFA) programme offers help to
pregnancy or maternity, sexual orientation, gender identity, anyone developing a mental health problem, experiencing
expression or reassignment, HIV or AIDS status, parental a worsening of an existing mental illness or a mental health
status, military and veterans status, flexibility of working crisis. The mental health support is given until appropriate
arrangements, religion or belief. We are committed to provide professional help is received, or the crisis resolved. To date
equal opportunities and fair treatment in recruitment, we have trained more than 600 mental health first aiders
appraisals, pay and conditions, training, development, in 51 markets, covering over 99 per cent of colleagues.
succession planning, promotion, grievance/disciplinary
In 2023, we recorded two work-related fatalities. A contractor
procedures and employment termination practices, that
was tragically and fatally injured while crossing a road on her
are inclusive and accessible; and that do not directly or
way to work in Nigeria. An employee was tragically and fatally
indirectly discriminate. Recruitment, employment, training,
injured in a road accident in India. Major injuries (per the UK
development and promotion decisions are based on the skills,
HSE definition) decreased from 20 in 2022 to 16, with fractures
knowledge and behaviour required to perform the role to the
the most common type of major injury (75 per cent). Overall,
Group’s standards. Implied in all employment terms is the
reported injuries increased by 28 per cent, with ‘slips/trips/falls’
commitment to equal pay for equal work. We also endeavour
and ‘transport/commuting’ remaining the most common
to make reasonable workplace adjustments (including during
causes of injury. The overall increase in reported injuries was
the hiring process) to ensure all individuals feel supported
a post COVID result, with all markets moving into the new
and are able to participate fully and reach their potential.
normal in 2023. Our injury rates remain aligned to, or better
If employees become disabled, we will aim to support them
than industry benchmarks. Hazards and near-miss reports
with appropriate training and workplace adjustments where
decreased 4 per cent between 2022 and 2023.
possible and to support their continued employment.
In 2023, we ran a back-to-basics programme to re-establish
Health, Safety and Wellbeing commitment and responsibility in safety and security at all
Our Health, Safety and Wellbeing (HSW) vision is to support levels, and address post pandemic and new normal practices.
employee productivity through a healthy and resilient All premises are inspected at least annually to identify any
workforce, and our mission is for employees to deliver every hazards, risks and incidences of non-compliance. HSW
day in a safe, secure and resilient way. Our corporate HSW communication is provided through mandatory training for
programme covers both mental and physical health and all new joiners, along with annual refreshers. In 2023, we also
wellbeing. The Group complies with both external regulatory created a pathway in the Group’s learning platform using
requirements and internal policy and standards for HSW engaging bite-sized video content to help educate colleagues
in all markets. It is Group policy to ensure that the more on their responsibilities to keep the Group safe. The Group
stringent of the two requirements is always met, ensuring celebrated World Day for Safety and Health at Work in April
our HSW practices meet or exceed the regulatory minimum. with the theme ‘Safety is Everyone’s Responsibility’ in line with
Compliance rates are reported at least biannually to each the back-to-basics intent.
country’s Management Team.
224 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 225
Directors’
report
One hundred and fifty eight (158) buildings, which covers more Product responsibility
than 90 per cent of our employees, were certified with the We aim to design and offer products based on client needs
WELL Health & Safety Rating; an evidence-based, third-party to ensure fair treatment and outcomes for clients.
certification that validates our efforts to address the hygiene
and safety of our workspaces. Four major head office projects The Group has in place a risk framework, comprising
also obtained the broader WELL certification. policies, standards and controls to support these objectives
in alignment with our Conduct Risk Framework. This
Our regular Office and Home Working Experience survey, framework covers sales practices, client communications,
conducted across 49 markets, demonstrated continued high appropriateness and suitability, and post-sales practices.
scores around wellbeing with 80 per cent of respondents There are controls across all activities above and the controls
agreeing that the workplace has a positive impact on their are tested on a regular basis to provide assurance on the
wellbeing and 87 per cent saying they are able to be physically framework. As part of this, we ensure products sold are
active and maintain a healthy work–life balance. suitable for clients and comply with relevant laws and
In 2023, all of the Group’s markets saw relaxation of COVID regulations. We also review our products on a periodic basis
restrictions with business moving to new normal, and and refine them to keep them relevant to the changing needs
continued uptake of the Group’s Future Workplace Now of clients and to meet regulatory obligations.
(flexible working) programme. An ergonomic online We have processes and guidelines specific to each of our
assessment tool is available for employees to assess their client industries, to promptly resolve client complaints
home working area for hazards, with a virtual assessment and understand and respond to client issues. Conduct
of the individual’s work environment, and a workplace considerations are given significant weighting in frontline
adjustment procedure available for employees who require incentive structures to drive the right behaviours.
support based on personal circumstances. Our work injury
insurance covers all employees working from home. For more information on our approach to product design,
product pricing, treating customers fairly and protecting
Business travel returned to pre-pandemic levels in 2023, and customers, and incentivising our frontline employees, see
we put together a Travel Risk Management Framework pages 55 and 56. For more information on fraud identification
aligned to ISO 31030:2021 Travel Risk Management Standards see page 131.
and supported by external travel risk and security advisers at
International SOS to support travellers.
Safeguarding intellectual property rights
The Group has processes in place to manage the Group’s
Major customers
trade mark rights and it respects third-party intellectual
Our five largest customers together accounted for property rights.
2.1 per cent of our total operating income in the year
ended 31 December 2023.
Group Code of Conduct
The Board has adopted a Group Code of Conduct and
Major suppliers
Ethics (the Code) relating to the lawful and ethical conduct
In 2023, USD $4.479 billion was spent with 11,563 suppliers. of business and this is supported by the Group’s valued
Of this, 74 per cent of the total spend was spent in the behaviours. This has been communicated to all directors
Asia region, with 18 per cent in Europe and the Americas, and employees, all of whom are expected to observe high
and 8 per cent in Africa and the Middle East. standards of integrity and fair dealing in relation to customers,
Furthermore, 80 per cent of total spend in 2023 was with employees and regulators in the communities in which the
474 suppliers. In addition, 80 per cent of carbon emissions Group operates. Directors and employees are asked to
were with 481 suppliers (excluding air travel suppliers). In 2023, recommit to the Code annually, and 99.75 per cent have
our five largest suppliers together accounted for 14.8 per cent completed the 2023 recommitment. All Board members
of total spend, with the largest ten amounting to 23 per cent have recommitted to the Code.
of total spend.
Community engagement
Supply chain management We collaborate with local partners to support social and
To support the operation of our businesses we source a variety economic development in communities across our footprint.
of goods and services governed through a third-party risk We aim to create more inclusive economies by sharing our
management framework through which we aim to follow the skills and expertise and supporting community initiatives that
highest standards in terms of supplier selection, due diligence transform lives.
and contract management. Established in 2019, Futuremakers by Standard Chartered
For information about how the Group engages with suppliers is our global youth economic empowerment initiative,
on environmental and social matters, please see our Supplier helping disadvantaged young people learn, earn and grow.
Charter and Supplier Diversity and Inclusion Standard. We are committed to improving economic participation
and equitable access to finance for young women and
Our Supplier Charter and Supplier Diversity and Inclusion standard can
microbusinesses. For more information on Futuremakers,
be viewed at sc.com/suppliercharter and sc.com/supplierdiversity
as well as our employee volunteering and community
Details of how we create value for our suppliers and other stakeholder
expenditure, please see pages 97 and 98.
groups can be found on pages 58 and 59
Directors’ report Other disclosures
ESG reporting guide The Group is developing scalable digital capability to
facilitate reporting against taxonomies being developed
Compliance with Listing Rules across the jurisdictions in which the Group operates. The
We comply with the requirements of the ESG Reporting Guide solution adopts a rules-based approach to assess whether a
contained in Appendix C2 to The Rules Governing the Listing client and any client activity with the Group is in-scope and
of Securities on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited. eligible for taxonomy reporting and will facilitate broader
With respect to the key performance indicators (KPIs) noted implementation of taxonomy compliance by relevant Group
in Part C: “Comply or explain” provisions, the Group does not entities as and when compliance implementation will be
report on KPI A1.3 and KPI A1.6 related to the production and required. Taxonomy data availability and quality will
handling of hazardous waste; KPI A2.5 related to packaging continue to evolve via client engagement, data vendors
materials used for finished products; KPI B2.2 related lost and partnerships.
days due to work injury; KPI B6.1 total products recalled due
The Group will consider applicable taxonomy alignment in our
to safety and health reasons, and KPI B6.4 product recall
business decisions, including at a client and transaction level,
procedures. As an office-based financial services provider
as well as more broadly at a sector strategy level. Given our
these issues were not deemed material. For further
footprint across Europe and the UK, Asia, Africa and the
information related to Aspect B4 Labour Standards and
Middle East, we need to continually assess taxonomy-
B5 Supply Chain Management, please also refer to the
alignment requirements based on information available
Group’s annual Modern Slavery Statement.
from clients and through our due diligence processes.
Compliance with Task Force on Climate-related Financial
Environmental impact of our operations
Disclosures (TCFD)
In line with our “comply or explain” obligation under the UK’s We aim to minimise the environmental impact of our
Financial Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules, we can confirm operations as part of our commitment to be a responsible
that we have made disclosures consistent with the TCFD company. We report on the actions we take to reduce energy
recommendations and recommended disclosures in this and water usage and non-hazardous waste generated in our
Annual Report. operations in the Sustainability Review on page 106 and in the
Supplementary sustainability information section on pages
Our TCFD disclosures also meet the new climate-related 505 and 506.
financial disclosure requirements contained in section 414CB
of the Companies Act 2006. We have also taken into account Our reporting methodology is based on the ‘The Greenhouse
the implementation guidance included in the TCFD 2021 Gas Protocol – A Corporate Accounting and Reporting
Annex. Further information on net zero progress and financed Standard (Revised Edition)’. We have adopted the operational
emissions is available on pages 104 to 117. For a detailed control approach to define our reporting boundary for GHG
TCFD summary and alignment index referencing relevant Scope 1 and 2 emissions. For Scope 3 financed emissions,
disclosures see page 511 to 516. boundaries are noted for each high-emitting sector in the
‘Our approach to measuring financed emissions’ table in the
Modern Slavery Act Sustainability Review.
The Group publishes a Modern Slavery Statement annually. Information on the principles and methodologies used to
This document gives further detail on the actions the Group calculate the GHG emissions of the Group can be found
has taken as it seeks to prevent modern slavery and human in our Environmental Reporting Criteria document at
trafficking in its operations (workforce), financing and sc.com/environmentcriteria.
supply chain. The Group publishes a Statement under the
UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 for the financial year ending Reporting period, boundary and scope
31 December 2023.
We report on Sustainability and Environmental, Social and
See more via sc.com/modernslavery Governance (ESG) matters throughout this Annual Report,
in particular in the following sections: (i) Strategic report,
Sustainability overview on pages 66 to 79; (ii) Sustainability
Sustainable finance taxonomies
review on pages 92 to 133; (iii) Risk review on pages 298 to 313;
Standard Chartered continues to assess the applicability of
and (iv) in the Supplementary sustainability information
sustainable finance taxonomies across the Group’s footprint.
section on pages 504 to 516.
Reporting has commenced in several markets in Asia in
accordance with local sustainable finance taxonomy The Sustainability and ESG information in this Annual report
regulatory requirements. An assessment on the applicability was compiled for the financial year 1 January to 31 December
and implementation timeline of the EU Corporate 2023, unless otherwise specified.
Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD) for Standard
The reporting period of operational environmental
Chartered Bank AG and Standard Chartered PLC has also
performance indicators is from 1 October 2022 to
been undertaken. Preparatory work has commenced to
30 September 2023. This allows sufficient time for
embed EU Taxonomy classifications and metrics. We will
independent third-party assurance to be completed prior to
continue to monitor expected policy developments from the
the publication of the Group’s Annual Report. Accordingly,
UK and the European Commission concerning guidance on
the operating income used for associated environmental
taxonomy alignment and technical screening criteria to
intensity metrics corresponds to the same time period,
incrementally enhance our assessment and support reporting
rather than the calendar year used in financial reporting.
as required.
There was no significant change in the boundary and scope
of this Annual Report from that of Standard Chartered PLC
Annual Report 2022, published on 16 February 2023.
226 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 227
Directors’
report
Assurance
Our Scope 1 and 2 emissions are assured by an independent company, Global Documentation, against the requirements of
ISO 14064.
The Group as disclosed GHG emissions and energy consumption data as required by the Large and Medium-sized Companies
and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008.
Units 2023 2022 2021
Reporting coverage of data
Annual operating income from 1 October to 30 September $ million 17,414 15,863 14,541
Net internal area of occupied property m2 880,515 946,234 998,571
GHG emissions
Scope 1 & 2:
Scope 1 emissions tCOe 8,488¹ 2,071 2,902
2
Scope 2 emissions (location-based)² tCOe 85,741 89,410 96,256
2
Scope 2 emissions (market-based)3 tCOe 26,246 47,363 82,761
2
Scope 1 & 2 emissions (market-based)3 tCOe 34,734 49,434 85,663
2
Scope 1 & 2 emissions (UK and offshore area only) tCOe 248 – –
2
GHG emissions – Intensity:
Total Scope 1 &2 emissions (market-based)/ intensity tCOe/$ million 2 3 6
2
Environmental resource efficiency
Energy
Indirect non-renewable energy consumption GWh 142 142 142
Indirect renewable energy consumption GWh 16 24 28
Direct non-renewable energy consumption GWh 13 10 12
Direct renewable energy consumption GWh 2 1 1
Energy consumption GWh 173 177 183
Energy consumption (UK and offshore area only) GWh 6 6 5
1 Scope 1 figure includes fugitive emissions for the first time in 2023 (2023: 5,266 tCOe). Prior year data was not available for fugitive emissions. For more information
2
on the methodology and assumptions used to calculate GHG emissions, please refer to the Environmental Reporting Criteria at sc.com/sustainabilityhub.
2 Location based emissions have been restated for prior comparative periods. Emissions erroneously included renewable energy certificates and power purchase
agreements. Other scope 2 reductions outside clean power are attributed to footprint reduction and efficiency gains.
3 Market based emissions have decreased from 2022 to 2023 due to footprint reduction, efficiency gains and the purchase of additional energy attribution
certificates by the Group.
Further detail on our environment performance can be found on pages 104 to 117; associated assumptions and methodologies in our reporting
criteria document at sc.com/environmentalcriteria
Electronic communication Annual General Meeting
The Board recognises the importance of good Our 2024 AGM will be held at 11:00am (UK time) (6:00pm
communications with all shareholders. Directors are in regular Hong Kong time) on 10 May 2024. Further details regarding
contact with our institutional shareholders and general the format, location and business to be transacted will be
presentations are made when we announce our financial disclosed within the 2024 Notice of AGM.
results. The AGM presents an opportunity to communicate
Our 2023 AGM was held on 3 May 2023 at 11:00am (UK time)
with all shareholders. Our shareholders are encouraged to
(6:00pm Hong Kong time). Special business at the meeting
receive our corporate documents electronically. The annual
included the approval of the power to allot ECAT1 Securities
and interim financial statements, Notice of AGM and any
for cash without certain formalities.
dividend circulars are all available electronically. If you do not
already receive your corporate documents electronically and
would like to do so in future, please contact our registrars at
the address on page 517. Shareholders are also able to vote
electronically on the resolutions being put to the AGM through
our registrars’ website at investorcentre.co.uk.
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 229
Directors’
report
Statement of directors’ responsibilities
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also
Report and the Group and Company financial statements responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors’ Report,
in accordance with applicable law and regulations. Directors’ Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance
Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and
Company financial statements for each financial year. The directors are responsible for the maintenance and
Under that law: integrity of the corporate and financial information included
on the Company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing the
• The Group financial statements have been prepared in
preparation and dissemination of financial statements differ
accordance with UK-adopted International Accounting
from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Standards and International Financial Reporting Standards
as adopted by the European Union;
Responsibility statement of the directors in
• The Company financial statements have been properly respect of the annual financial report
prepared in accordance with UK-adopted International
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
Accounting Standards as applied in accordance with
section 408 of the Companies Act 2006; and • The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair
• The financial statements have been prepared in
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or
accordance with the requirements of the Companies
loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the
Act 2006.
consolidation taken as a whole; and
Under company law the directors must not approve the
• The Strategic report includes a fair review of the
financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give
development and performance of the business and the
a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and
position of the Company and the undertakings included
Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a
In preparing each of the Group and Company financial description of the emerging risks and uncertainties that
statements, the directors are required to: they face
• Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them We consider the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a
consistently; whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s
• Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable,
position and performance, business model and strategy.
relevant and reliable;
• State whether they have been prepared in accordance
with UK-adopted International Accounting Standards and By order of the Board
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by
the European Union;
• Assess the Group and the Company’s ability to continue as
a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related
to going concern; and
• Use the going concern basis of accounting unless they
Diego De Giorgi
either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to
Group Chief Financial Officer
cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to
do so 23 February 2024
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate
accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain
the Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company
and enable them to ensure that its financial statements
comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are responsible
for such internal control1 as they determine is necessary to
enable the preparation of financial statements that are free
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error,
and have general responsibility for taking such steps as
are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of
the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other
irregularities.
Risk review Risk profile
Maximum exposure
2023
Maximum
on Balance
Sheet Net On Undrawn Financial Net Off Total On &
Exposure Balance Commitments Guarantees Balance Off Balance
(net of credit Sheet (net of credit (net of credit Sheet Sheet Net
impairment) Collateral Exposure impairment) impairment) Exposure Exposure
$million $million $million $million $million $million $million
Industry:
Automotive manufacturers¹ 3,564 65 3,499 3,791 538 4,329 7,828
Aviation1,2 1,775 974 801 1,794 668 2,462 3,263
Of which : High Carbon Sector 1,330 974 356 944 615 1,559 1,915
Commodity Traders2 7,406 303 7,103 2,591 6,281 8,872 15,975
Metals & Mining1.2 4,589 307 4,282 3,373 1,218 4,591 8,873
Of which: Steel1 1,596 193 1,403 601 358 959 2,362
Of which: Coal Mining1 29 9 20 51 99 150 170
Of which: Aluminium1 526 9 517 338 188 526 1,043
Of which: Other Metals & Mining1 2,438 96 2,342 2,383 573 2,956 5,298
Shipping1 5,964 3,557 2,407 2,261 291 2,552 4,959
Construction2 2,853 448 2,405 2,753 5,927 8,680 11,085
Commercial Real Estate2 14,533 6,363 8,170 4,658 311 4,969 13,139
Of which: High Carbon Sector 7,498 3,383 4,115 1,587 112 1,699 5,814
Hotels & Tourism2 1,680 715 965 1,339 227 1,566 2,531
Oil & Gas1,2 6,278 894 5,384 7,845 6,944 14,789 20,173
Power1 5,411 1,231 4,180 3,982 732 4,714 8,894
Total3 54,053 14,857 39,196 34,387 23,137 57,524 96,720
Of which: Vulnerable and cyclical sectors 38,880 9,983 28,897 24,842 21,511 46,353 75,250
Of which: High carbon sectors4 34,634 10,411 24,223 23,783 10,450 34,233 58,456
Total Corporate, Commercial &
Institutional Banking 130,405 32,744 97,661 104,437 63,183 167,620 265,281
Total Group 331,952 125,760 206,192 182,299 74,278 256,577 462,769
1 High carbon sectors
2 Vulnerable and cyclical sectors
3 Maximum On Balance sheet exposure include FVTPL portion of $955 million, of which Vulnerable sector is $821 million and High Carbon sector is $443 million
4 Excluded Cement to the value of $671 million net of ECL under Construction
266 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 267
Risk
review
and
Capital
review
2022
Maximum
On Balance
Sheet Net On Undrawn Financial Net Off Total On &
Exposure Balance Commitments Guarantees Balance Off Balance
(net of credit Sheet (net of credit (net of credit Sheet Sheet Net
impairment) Collateral Exposure impairment) impairment) Exposure Exposure
$million $million $million $million $million $million $million
Industry:
Automotive manufacturers1 3,167 84 3,083 3,683 560 4,243 7,326
Aviation1,2,3 3,154 1,597 1,557 1,762 632 2,394 3,951
Of which : High Carbon Sector 2,540 1,582 958 695 555 1,250 2,208
Commodity Traders2 8,133 341 7,792 2,578 6,095 8,673 16,465
Metals & Mining1.2 4,990 333 4,657 3,732 930 4,662 9,319
Of which: Steel1 1,227 157 1,070 1,450 327 1,777 2,847
Of which: Coal Mining1 48 15 33 8 7 15 48
Of which: Aluminium1 728 107 621 285 74 359 980
Of which: Other Metals & Mining1 2,987 54 2,933 1,989 522 2,511 5,444
Shipping1 5,322 3,167 2,155 1,870 256 2,126 4,281
Construction2 2,909 552 2,357 2,762 5,969 8,731 11,088
Commercial Real Estate2 16,286 7,205 9,081 6,258 224 6,482 15,563
Of which: High Carbon Sector 6,547 2,344 4,203 3,996 90 4,086 8,289
Hotels & Tourism2 1,741 919 822 1,346 138 1,484 2,306
Oil & Gas1,2 6,668 806 5,862 7,630 7,158 14,788 20,650
Power1 4,771 1,258 3,513 4,169 1,176 5,345 8,858
Total4 57,141 16,262 40,879 35,790 23,138 58,928 99,807
Of which: Vulnerable and cyclical sectors 43,678 11,741 31,937 25,761 21,068 46,829 78,766
Of which: High carbon sectors5 34,005 9,574 24,431 25,775 10,725 36,500 60,931
Total Corporate, Commercial &
Institutional Banking 139,631 35,229 104,402 95,272 51,662 146,934 251,336
Total Group 350,166 141,715 208,451 168,574 60,224 228,798 437,249
1 High carbon sectors
2 Vulnerable and cyclical sectors
3 In addition to the aviation sector loan exposures, the Group owns $3.2 billion of aircraft under operating leases in 2022
4 Maximum On Balance sheet exposure include FVTPL portion of $1,251 million, of which Vulnerable sector is $1,072 million and High Carbon sector is $574 million
5 Excluded Cement to the value of $719 million net of ECL under Construction
Risk review Risk profile
Climate Risk
Managing the financial and non-financial risks from climate change
Disclaimer
For the avoidance of doubt, this ‘Climate Risk’ section is subject to the statements included in (i) the ‘Forward- Looking Statements’
section; and (ii) the ‘Basis of Preparation and Caution Regarding Data Limitations’ section provided under ‘Important Notices’ at
page 519.
Credit Risk
We have developed a climate risk management framework, which provides a baseline level of effective risk mitigation.
Consumer, Private and Business Banking (CPBB) Credit Risk
As of September 2023, we have assessed the physical risk for 79 per cent and transition risk for 54 per cent of our CPBB portfolio.
Physical Risk Measuring and Monitoring in CPBB Transition Risk Measuring and Monitoring in CPBB
(as of September 2023) (as of September 2023)
2%
21% 20%
46% 42%
46%
70%
77% 78%
100%
98% 80%
79%
58%
54% 54%
30%
23% 22%
Overall Consumer Business Private CCPL Overall Consumer Business Private CCPL
CPBB Mortgage Banking Banking CPBB Mortgage Banking Banking
Physical Risk Assessed Physical Risk Not assessed Transition Risk Assessed Transition Risk Not assessed
For our secured portfolio, assessments are based on the underlying physical collateral for our residential and commercial
portfolios where we continue to leverage Munich Re’s Risk Suite (Natural Hazards Edition) to measure acute and chronic
physical risk impacting each asset. For our unsecured portfolios, such as credit cards and personal loans, we recognise that
physical risk is likely to have a more pronounced second order impact that may indirectly affect our customers’ ability to repay.
We have further expanded our scope of risk measurement and monitoring to cover these products in 2023, albeit using proxies
based on the location of bank branches.
We assess the exposure concentrations to high physical risk across acute and chronic hazards quarterly, and report these at risk
management committees at Group, Region and Country, with a stronger focus on flood risk and rising sea levels. During 2023,
the physical risk profile across products and markets has remained stable, apart from slight variations in exposure to high flood
risk levels due to enhancements in Munich Re’s flood risk model.
Assessment of Acute and Chronic Physical Risk for Top 10 Markets’ Exposures backed by Property Collateral, indicating
Exposure Concentration Subjected to Very High Gross Risk (as of September 2023)
Korea Hong Kong Taiwan
Global 23% 38% 7%
Physical risk event Q3-22 Q3-23 Trend Q3-22 Q3-23 Trend Q3-22 Q3-23 Trend Q3-22 Q3-23 Trend
Flood Risk 24.80% 24.20% 14.00% 12.30% 44.60% 44.90% 11.90% 11.00%
Sea-level rise
(Year 2100, RCP 8.5) 2.10% 2.20% 0.01% 0.60% 3.40% 3.60% 0.04% 0.03%
India Singapore Malaysia UAE
5% 18% 4% 1%
Physical risk event Q3-22 Q3-23 Trend Q3-22 Q3-23 Trend Q3-22 Q3-23 Trend Q3-22 Q3-23 Trend
Flood Risk 30.20% 22.30% 3.50% 3.40% 6.50% 5.30% 29.50% 26.50%
Sea-level rise
(Year 2100, RCP 8.5) 1.10% 0.90% 0.08% 0.06% 0.20% 0.30% 36.80% 36.10%
Jersey Vietham China
2% 1% 2%
Physical risk event Q3-22 Q3-23 Trend Q3-22 Q3-23 Trend Q3-22 Q3-23 Trend
Flood Risk 1.90% 1.60% 63.90% 60.40% 67.70% 67.10%
Sea-level rise
(Year 2100, RCP 8.5) – – – 1.80% 1.00% 8.30% 8.30%
Note: Movements are called out for markets showing a change of >5 per cent year-on-year change in flood risk exposure concentration.
298 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 299
Risk
review
and
Capital
review
Our key residential mortgage markets have not implemented minimum building energy efficiency standards. As such, in 2023
we took an alternative approach towards assessing the transition risk impact on our borrowers, by quantifying the robustness
of their repayment capability, rather than accounting for valuation related risks of property collateral. We used a combination
of internal and external data, including results from our net zero financed emissions calculations and our initial analysis shows
that the transition risk levels appear to be low across key residential mortgage markets. These results will be refined along with
revisions in exposure concentrations, as the data landscape matures over time and as we improve upon the initial approach.
Approaches to Measure Transition Risk
Impact on collateral valuation Impact on borrower repayment capability
Energy price Minimum building Retrofitting Energy price Retrofitting Macroeconomic
increase enegy efficiency cost increase cost impacts
regulations
Transition Risk Ratings using SCB CPBB Approach, by Exposure Concentration (as of December 2022)
Very high High Medium Low Very Low
2% 2% 2% 1%
3% 4% 10%
13% 16% 9%
12%
Singapore Hong Kong Taiwan
$9.4bn $32.3bn $5.3bn
80% 77% 47%
23%
For the Jersey residential mortgage portfolio, we used EPC (Energy Performance Certificate) data to assess the energy efficiency
distribution, with results indicating that more than 80 per cent of the portfolio is rated at C or better.
Transition Risk Ratings for Residential Mortgages EPC Ratings for Residential Mortgages in Jersey by Count
in Jersey using EPC Ratings by Exposure (as of August 2023)
7% 0.3%
A 60%
12% B
C
D
E
Jersey
9%
$0.3bn
17% 9%
8%
3% 4% 1% 2% 3%
0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0%
64%
A B C D E A B C D E A B C D E
Prior to 2000 2000 - 2021 2022 onwards
We aim to continue to explore ways to enhance our assessment approaches across both secured and unsecured CPBB
portfolios through improved methodologies and data. This will enable us to better assess the susceptibility to and readiness of
our clients in managing climate-driven risks, whilst also enabling us to identify opportunities to assist them in their transition
towards a low-carbon economy. Options we are considering include expanding the scope of our existing credit origination
process to cover Climate-related considerations in segments such as Medium Enterprises.
Risk review Risk profile
Corporate, Commercial and Institutional Banking (CCIB) Credit Risk
This section covers details of how we assess climate risk for our corporate clients, including insights gained from our client
level assessments and progress made to further strengthen our framework for climate and credit related portfolio and risk
management. The figure below outlines our process in assessing climate risk.
5. C ontrols and 1. Identify Risks and
Assurance Mitigation Plans
Climate risk questionaire (CRQ)
5. 1.
Control Sample Testing Data Gathering
Independant Assurance Client Outreach
Scenario Analysis
2.
4. P ortfolio Management 2. Analyzing the Risk
and Monitoring
4. Climate Risk Assesment (BRAG)
Credit Underwriting Principles Green
Time Horizon
Impact
Risk Appitite (%Black or Red) Amber
3.
High Climate Risk Red
Mitigating
Clients Monitoring
Factors
Black
3. E valuating the Risk Business Credit Application
Review and Approval
BCA Analysis Risk Trigers
Financial Impacts Warning Signals
1. Identify risks and mitigation plans
Our client-level Climate Risk Questionnaire (CRQ) aims to help assess the potential financial risks from climate change using
quantitative and qualitative information. The assessment presents a consolidated view across five pillars of how exposed and
ready for transition or adaptation our clients may be.
Governance Gross Physical Risk Gross Transition Risk
& Disclosures Physical Risk Adaptation Transition Risk Mitigation
Intent, commitment Exposure to acute Mitigations to acute Relative emissions Decarbonisation plan
and reporting and chronic events and chronic events for sector and region and emission targets
• Reporting of • Asset locations • Assessment of • Reliance on fossil • Assess client’s plans
Climate targets exposed to physical client’s adaptation fuel/carbon and its credibility
risk events (Floods, plans to its products to transition its
• Board responsibility
Storms, Droughts operating locations business and supply
and accountability • Policy
etc) and supply chain chain
environmental/
• Management
• Model output to • Insurance coverage impact due to • Emissions reporting
incentives to
assess current and to protect against sovereign targets and plan to
manage climate
future risk to client’s physical risk decarbonisation acheive them
risk within the
operating location policy in sector
organisation • Capex in low carbon
• Potential financial technologies,
impact from various internal carbon
climate scenarios pricing scenarios
300 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 301
Risk
review
and
Capital
review
The CRQ helps us to form a view of the overall climate risk profile of our clients and supports the underlying themes that feed
into our broader scenario analysis and corporate planning exercises. In 2023, we completed an exhaustive review of the CRQ
based on historical data, including rationalising questions, introducing a methodological differentiation in assessing corporates
against projects, introducing sector-specific questions, and building stronger linkages to our net zero and credible transition
plan workstreams.
Coverage of our analysis
In 2023 we completed CRAs for c.4,100 clients, which is c.85-90 per cent of our corporate client limits and is a significant
improvement from c.2,200 clients assessed in the year before.
How do different regions in our footprint compare?
Overall, while the levels and consistency in the availability of climate information from public disclosures has increased, this is
still a developing aspect in our markets, which highlights the importance of engaging our clients on this topic.
Client-level Climate Risk assessment scores by region
Overall score
Number of across the 1. Governance & 2. Gross 3 Physical Risk 4. Gross 5. Transition
2023 YTD Assessment* clients five pillars disclosures Physical Risk adaptation Transition Risk RIsk Mitigation
Asia 2,709 46% 44% 69% 27% 48% 41%
Africa & Middle East 409 36% 27% 69% 13% 46% 25%
Europe & Americas 1,018 64% 75% 78% 53% 50% 65%
Total 4,136 49% 50% 71% 32% 48% 45%
* Data assessed is as of September 2023
• We continue to see better transition risk mitigation and physical risk adaptation scores for corporates domiciled in Europe
and Americas, where disclosure levels are highest and the plans to effectively manage climate risk are being put in place.
• Physical risk adaptation levels remain an area of risk for most of our markets, with the lowest absolute scores in Africa and the
Middle East.
• Asia constitutes c.65 per cent of our total volume of clients assessed in 2023 (2022: c.63 per cent) followed by Europe and
Americas, which represents c.25 per cent of the clients and the largest increase in share (2022: 18 per cent)
Insights from these assessments for the pillars mentioned previously are provided below.
Governance and disclosures
We have seen a gradual increase in the number of clients reporting quantifiable climate change related commitments over
2022 and 2023 driven by an improvement in climate risk transition plans being put in place across our markets but this does not
necessarily come via ‘Carbon Disclosures Project’, which remains more a developing market disclosure across our client footprint.
Key risk remains on management incentives linked to climate change; an area where we are actively engaging with clients.
Percentage of clients in scope
Has a quantifiable 2023 62%
climate policy or
commitment 2022 58%
2021 55%
Has board 2023 66%
member with
climage oversight 2022 55%
2021 49%
Have management2023 37%
incentives linked
to climate 2022 29%
2021 32%
Has TCFD-aligned 2023 47%
disclosures
2022 37%
2021 29%
Discloses to 2023 24%
CDP
2022 29%
2021 33%
Risk review Risk profile
Transition risk mitigation levels
Over the last two years, there has been a material increase in both the number of clients putting in place a transition plan
and those planning investments to move to low carbon technologies, driven by increasing regulatory pressure and enhanced
transition risk commitments in some of our key markets. While the number of clients reporting Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions has
not increased in the last two years, we have seen an increase in clients that report Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions reduction targets.
However, the ability to set quantifiable targets to achieve broader commitments is still lagging when looked at on an absolute
basis and the scale of the transition needed.
Percentage of clients in scope
Reports 2023 71%
Scope 1 & 2 2022 61%
emissions 2021 71%
Reports 2023 54%
Scope 3 2022 52%
emissions 2021 61%
Has transition plan 2023 63%
to meet current or 2022 43%
future regulations
2021 43%
Has made plans 2023 68%
for investment in
2022 54%
low carbon
technologies 2021 49%
2023 50%
Has scope 1 & 2
2022 49%
reduction targets
2021 35%
2023 31%
Has scope 3
reduction targets 2022 17%
2021 13%
Client performs 2023 34%
financial transition
2022 21%
scenario analysis
2021 23%
Physical risk readiness
Physical risk adaptation remains an area of concern and we have seen downward trends across our portfolio of clients due to
an increase in the number of assessments (from c.2,200 - 4,100) captured in our coverage, which now better reflects our overall
corporate portfolio. This reflects the nature of many of our footprint markets, where physical risk adaptation and associated
levels of disclosures are in nascent stages.
Percentage of clients in scope
2023 42%
Acknowledges
physical risk 2022 54%
2021 50%
2023 35%
Assessed
physical risk 2022 39%
2021 34%
Have taken 2023 32%
adaptation
measures to 2022 40%
date or made
future plans to 2021 39%
2023
18%
Estimates
a financial 2022 24%
impact
2021 22%
302 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 303
Risk
review
and
Capital
review
Transition risk – Gross Risk and Transition Plan levels for key sectors
For four key sectors that have high transition risk i.e. Commercial Real Estate (CRE), O&G Producers, Metals and Mining
Producers and Utilities, we have assessed the risk against the level of transition plans and how it varies across our key markets.
CRE: Companies across our key markets are close together O&G: This sector has been gradually preparing for the
with respect to their transition scores, reflecting the policy transition to lower carbon intensive fuels over the last few
environment in the building sector, which is broadly similar years. While there is a lot more to do in terms of transitioning,
across major markets. Key factors which determine the the improved transition risk understanding and associated
transition risk grading for a building are its location, which disclosures lead to on average better mitigation scores in
helps ascertain the intensity of the power grid supplying this sector.
electricity to the asset, the property type, and its energy
Mining: Almost 50 per cent of the Metals and Mining
efficiency.
clients in our portfolio, ranging from Steel to Cement to
Power: Clients in the UAE are slightly behind some of their Aluminium producers are based in China and India.
global peers, although this is driven in part by a lower level of Effective decarbonisation in this sector is reliant on the
disclosures and higher transition risk as a result of fossil fuel power grid decarbonising, improved energy efficiency in
intensive business models. overall operations, including heating, as well as managing
process level emissions.
CRE
China Hong Kong India Singapore UK USA UAE South Africa Korea Rest of Middle East Europe
noitagitiM
ksiR
noitisnarT
noitagitim
hgiH
noitagitim
woL
Gross Transition Risk
O&G Producer
noitagitiM
ksiR
noitisnarT
noitagitim
hgiH
noitagitim
woL
Utilities
Gross Transition Risk
noitagitiM
ksiR
noitisnarT
noitagitim
hgiH
noitagitim
woL
Gross Transition Risk
Metals & Mining Producers
noitagitiM
ksiR
noitisnarT
noitagitim
hgiH
noitagitim
woL
Gross Transition Risk
Risk review Risk profile
2. Analysing the climate risk grading 3. Evaluating the risk (linkage to credit process)
Each client is assigned a climate risk grading (BRAG) Once a climate risk grading is assigned to a client, the impacts
computed based on the gross transition risk and transition risk from climate-related risks are integrated into the existing
mitigation. Owing to physical risk data being less robust, we credit approval process qualitatively and/or quantitatively
have to date focused only on transition risk drivers to compute through inclusion within the business risk analysis and
the climate risk grading. However, as highlighted in the section financial modelling. If the risks are deemed material and not
above, we have seen a steady improvement in the coverage adequately represented via the existing credit rating of the
of physical risk data in the last two years. During 2024, we plan client, subjective warning signals may be added to influence
to develop a methodology to incorporate both physical and the credit rating. Additionally, risk triggers are added to
transition risk drivers in the computation of BRAG which monitor risks that are not adequately mitigated and to seek
will holistically represent the extent of climate risk faced additional information from the client where applicable.
by a client.
There are currently four types of BRAG ratings assigned to
clients – black, red, amber, green.
4. Portfolio management and monitoring
Clients are deemed to have very high Concentration of black and red graded clients remains within
Black
exposure to Transition Risk with little or proposed Risk Appetite levels at 6 per cent within our key
no mitigation plans markets; some of the more developed markets have the
highest proportion of green clients, which reflects the higher
Clients are deemed to have very high
Red level of climate risk disclosures and governance established
exposure to Transition Risk but with
by companies in this region. Amongst our key markets, the
acceptable or good mitigation plans
UAE currently has the highest proportion of red and black
Clients are deemed to have high clients, driven by a combination of clients that had fewer
Amber
exposure to Transition Risk but with disclosures and high transition risk, particularly fossil fuel led
acceptable or good mitigation plans. utility providers.
Clients are deemed to have low or During 2023 we have embedded qualitative and quantitative
Green
limited exposure to Transition Risk climate considerations into the Group’s credit underwriting
principles for O&G, Mining, Shipping and CRE sectors for which
we have industry specific origination teams. This included
introducing portfolio level caps for black and red rated clients
and lower preference for emission intensive transactions. It is
important to note that underlying principles vary depending
on the sector, to help steer the portfolio in the desired direction
over the medium term, and also consider the Group’s 2030
financed emission targets. We have also initiated work to
assess risks to underlying collateral from physical and
transition risk specifically for our CRE and Shipping portfolios.
A key strategic focus area going forward is to embed climate
risk and net zero targets into business and credit decisions.
To enable this, we have established a Net Zero Climate Risk
Working Forum where discussions on account plans on high
climate risk and net zero divergent clients are held.
Portfolio distribution across key markets
100%
76.6% 81.73% 73.8% 56.1% 82.3% 74.4% 84.8% 74.49%
80%
60%
40%
39.1%
8.0%
20% 15.17%
17.3% 21.1%
16.74% 13.5% 16.1% 11.9% 6.45%
5.4% 0.7% 1.52% 5.1% 4.8% 4.2% 1.5% 3.1% 0.2% 3.89%
0%
Total Singapore India UK US UAE Hong Kong China
304 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 305
Risk
review
and
Capital
review
Reputational and Sustainability Risk
Climate risk is considered within the Reputational and
Sustainability Risk framework, for our corporate clients,
5. Controls and assurance through an assessment of a client’s ability to meet their own
Independent control checks by first line of defence and climate-related commitments, as well as meet the Group’s
assurance reviews by second line of defence on integrating aim to reach net zero GHG emissions by 2050.
climate risk within the credit process are carried out quarterly
We have continued to perform additional client level due
to improve the quality and effectiveness of assessing climate
diligence for (i) clients covered by the Group’s net zero targets
risk. The results of the assurance testing and steps to address
for high carbon sectors (O&G, Power, Steel, Aluminium,
gaps are periodically shared with impacted stakeholders and
Cement, Automobiles, Shipping, Aviation and CRE), (ii) clients
as part of governance updates to risk committees.
with a coal nexus2 as well as (iii) those that have been
assessed at client level as high climate risk. The assessment
Credibility of transition plans
focuses on three pillars at covering both client and transaction
We aim to actively manage our exposure by shifting to lower level aspects:
emissions-intensive clients and working closely with our
Of the case reviews completed, an increase in Reputational
existing clients to develop credible transition plans that are
and Sustainability Risk rating was suggested for c.24 per cent
consistent with our net zero commitments. To help us identity
of transactions compared to c.17 per cent in 2022. These
such clients, we draw on our existing CRQ framework to
consisted of companies in Coal Production, O&G, Mining,
finalise a methodology to assess the Credibility of Transition
Steel and Cement sectors, primarily from the South East Asia
Plan (CTP) by analysing client commitments to transition
region, looking to procure coal or other high carbon emitting
their business to a low carbon economy. We leverage the
products for manufacturing, production, or wholesale
data captured in the CRQ and assign a credibility rating to
purposes. In addition, some entities with high temperature
the clients’ transition plan based on an in-house scoring
alignment scores and no clear transition plan were raised as
methodology that draws on the UK Transition Planning
having additional risk and rating increases recommended.
Taskforce and Glasgow Financial Alliance for Net Zero
guidance on net zero transition plans. The above-mentioned due diligence is in addition to
management of environmental and social risk arising from
The current methodology will be periodically reviewed as
the Group’s client relationships and transactions. Further
the level of client climate-related disclosure steps up across
information is available in the Sustainability overview on
our footprint, to ensure it remains fit for purpose and in line
pages 76 to 78 and Sustainability review on pages 125 to 129.
with industry best practices, stakeholder expectations and
regulatory requirements. The CTP has been embedded into Temperature alignment is one way to consider a company’s
the Version 3 CRQ that was implemented in January 2024. impact on climate change and an indicator of a client’s
progress towards a net zero economy. It is calculated based
on historic emission intensities and volume of hydrocarbons
produced to produce a forward-looking temperature
alignment score. We assessed the weighted average
temperature alignment (WATA) projected to 2030 of 3,661
corporate client entities (covering c.62 per cent of corporate
client portfolio on a net nominal basis) by high carbon sector.
Client Level Transaction Level
Temperature Alignment Credibility of Transition Plan Net Zero Emissions Impact
Temperature Alignment and Readiness and Robustness of Influence on Net Zero alignment
Comparison to client peers transition strategy from client risk from both internal and regional
assesments context
2 As defined by the Group’s public Position Statement to only provide financial services to clients who by
2030, are less than 5 per cent dependent on thermal coal (based on percentage revenue).
Risk review Risk profile
Insights
• Portfolio average temperature alignment is 3.48⁰C. Compared to other sectors within our portfolio, O&G, CRE, Utilities and
Construction have a higher temperature alignment given their dependence on high carbon emitting production.
• Compared to 2022, there was an increase in sector temperature alignment scores across O&G and Construction sectors
driven by improvements in both coverage of the corporate clients assessed and emission data coverage for our clients
(due to reduced use of proxies).
Utilities O&G Transportation CRE Building Consumer Automobiles Metals Technology Commodity Others
and Storage Products, Durables & Components & Mining Hardware Traders
Construction & Apparel & Equipment
& Engineering
306 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
%06.3
%86.4
%48.2
%46.3 %25.3 %05.3
%97.2 %19.2
%45.3 %25.3
%93.3
Weighted average temperature alignment (WATA) by client sectors (as of September 2023)
2021
5.0
4.5
4.0
3.5
3.0
2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
0.0
)C°(
ATAW
2022 2023
Building
Products, Consumer Technology
Transportation Construction & Durables & Automobiles & Metals & Hardware & Commodity
Utilities O&G and Storage CRE Engineering Apparel Components Mining Equipment Traders Others
Asia 3.7°C 4.9°C 2.7°C 3.6°C 3.5°C 3.2°C 2.7°C 3.2°C 3.9°C 3.5°C 3.6°C
Africa &
Middle East 3.9°C 4.6°C 2.8°C 3.3°C 3.6°C 3.4°C 3.5°C 2.8°C 3.3°C 4.6°C 3.2°C
Europe &
Americas 3.0°C 4.6°C 3.1°C 3.9°C 3.2°C 4.0°C 3.0°C 2.6°C 1.8°C 3.2°C 3.1°C
As part of our 2023 modelling roadmap, we initiated work on developing an in-house methodology to model temperature
alignment for priority sectors (i.e. O&G, Steel and Automotive) as well as a sector-agnostic model to cover remaining corporate
portfolios. This has helped to reduce reliance on third party modelling capabilities.
Temperature alignment is an emerging concept, and industry-wide standards on methodology are still evolving. We fully
expect our approach to evolve in line with best practice. Client-level emissions are only available for c.55 per cent of corporate
clients and sector average proxies are being used for the remainder. Improving such data gaps remains a key priority.
Country Risk
The Group uses a set of physical and transition risk rankings to identify the markets most vulnerable and least ready to adapt
and mitigate climate-related physical and transition risks.
• The physical risk rankings are based on a set of publicly available scores such as ND-Gain Country Index and GermanWatch
Climate Risk Index, as well as S&P Global Ratings and Moody’s Investors Service.
• The transition risk rankings are based on an internally developed methodology which is a combination of climate and
macroeconomic drivers.
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 307
Risk
review
and
Capital
review
Physical and Transition Risk rankings methodological deep dives
Assessing markets’
Transition Risk
vulnerabilities to climate
change and readiness to adapt
German
ND-Gain
Watch Climate
Country Index
Risk Index
Physical Risk
Moody’s
S&P Global
Investor
Rating
Services
noitisnart
ot
decaf
ksiR
noitisnart
ot
ytilibA
noitisnarT
ssorG
ksiR
noitisnarT
srotcaf
ksiR
srotcaf
noitagitiM
Gauging markets’ historical
losses as a result of extreme
weather events
Reiliance on fossil Carbon footprint of
fuel imports and imports and efforts
exports
Emission footprint Energy efficiency
per capita levels
Governments’ Governments’ fiscal
effectiveness in flexibility to support
achieving targets the transition
Low-carbon energy Imports of
production capacity low-carbon
technology products
Measuring markets’ exposure Measuring markets’ exposure
to extreme weather events to extreme weather events
Based on their aggregated physical and transition risk scores, sovereigns are split into decile-based buckets ranging from
1 (low risk) to 10 (high risk). These rankings are a qualitative input to our internal Country Risk management process spanning
annual sovereign credit grades and limits reviews, inputs to climate-related scenario analysis, and Risk Appetite.
Gross Country Risk (GCR) exposure distribution as of 30 September 2023 across Physical Risk categories
Bucket 1 (Best) 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 (Worst)
Exposures % 10.5 29.1 20.0 4.4 17.5 8.3 1.9 6.5 0.8 1.1
GCR exposure distribution as of 30 September 2023 across Transition Risk Categories
Bucket 1 (Best) 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 (Worst)
Exposures % 2.7 14.4 12.0 36.0 18.6 4.3 3.8 7.3 0.7 0.1
Physical and Transition Risk rankings distribution for key markets¹:
Key markets’ climate risk bucket allocation (as of Sept 2023)
Pakistan
India Nigeria
Mainland
China
Hong
Kong
UAE
South Korea
Singapore USA
Bubble size represent markets’ GCR exposure
ksir
hgiH
ksir
woL
Low risk High risk
ksiR
lacisyhP
Transition Risk
Risk review Risk profile
Insights Limitations
• For both physical and transition risk, our exposure to • The computation inputs are based on latest available data
high-risk countries (buckets 9 and 10) remains well below which may be dated. Proxies have been used where data
Risk Appetite. for the sovereign is not available.
• The rankings are largely driven by the level of financial • The ranking uses equally spaced decile scores and provides
risk countries are exposed to and their ability to absorb the results in an ordinal manner. While the simplicity helps
these losses. As such, the rankings are largely dependent in adoption and provides the relative position of the
on countries’ development stage, economy-wide sovereigns, other systems may provide more information.
diversification, in-country inequalities and gross exposure
to physical and transition risk shocks. Operational and Technology Risk
• Additionally, we keep close track of transition risk events Climate risk primarily impacts Operational and Technology
such as the establishment of the EU’s Carbon Border risk as it manifests when physical risk disrupts our properties,
Adjustment Mechanism (EU CBAM) and its potential data centres and third party arrangements. Thus far, our focus
impact on our key portfolios. Other markets with internal has been on physical risks, and we aim to explore transition
carbon pricing mechanisms (such as Singapore, South risk elements in 2024. We continue exploring enhancements
Korea, South Africa, etc) are also being monitored as to our control framework across impacted areas. Whilst
part of country risk annual reviews. From a physical risk Continuity Plans for third party arrangements have been
standpoint, the rise of El Niño season (expected to peak enhanced to include climate risk related considerations, we
at the beginning of 2024) is likely to exacerbate climate are targeting to gather our material vendors’ operating site
conditions throughout the Group’s footprint regions and we location data to assess their specific physical risk exposures,
continue to monitor these as part of our annual reviews. such that enhanced continuity plans can be developed.
We continue to assess the physical risk vulnerabilities of our
own operating locations on a regular basis. Furthermore, we
have expanded the assessment of physical risk exposure at
onboarding to include data centres.
Assessment of gross Physical Risk at our own operating locations (as of September 2023)
Physical Risk event Time horizon Scenario Asia AME E&A Global
Flood (Acute) 2023 N/A 24% 8% 17% 20%
Wildfire (Acute) 0% 0% 0% 0%
Storm (Acute) 18% 1% 6% 14%
Sea-level rise (Chronic) 2100 RCP 8.5 1% 5% 0% 2%
Heat Stress (Chronic) 2050 RCP 8.5 24% 35% 0% 26%
Number of operating locations 714 239 35 988
Insights Traded Risk
• From an acute risk perspective, 20 per cent of the Group’s We manage the climate risk of traded risk exposures through
locations globally are subjected to flood risk, 14 per cent the stress-testing framework. Climate risks are incorporated
with storm risk and none at risk from wildfire. Given our in the scenarios monitored against the traded risk stress Risk
footprint, a higher proportion (24 per cent for flood, Appetite, covering all fair value exposures in the trading and
18 per cent for storm) of the Group’s locations in Asia banking books.
are subject to acute risks and 17 per cent of locations
Climate-related stress scenarios are designed to include
in Europe and Americas are subjected to flood risks.
transition risk effects from climate change policies and
• In the locations where weather events such as storms or shocks to markets due to supply and demand disruption
cyclones are frequent, the buildings are built in from physical climate events. Three scenarios are currently
consideration of these risks in line with regional standards. in place: two physical and one transitional. The assumptions
and results are subject to internal governance.
• From a chronic risk perspective, under RCP 8.5 for heat stress
is at 26 per cent (35 per cent for AME, 24 per cent for Asia). Our climate risk management for traded risk exposures is
Exposure to sea level rise remains below 5 per cent. evolving and we are working closely with industry bodies and
academics to better assess and monitor climate-related risks
• A broad range of mitigation options are considered,
and opportunities.
such as property insurance, operating a diversified
location strategy, splitting delivery and therefore
reducing concentration risk.
308 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 309
Risk
review
and
Capital
review
Treasury Risk For the corporate portfolios, we developed transition risk
From a capital perspective, climate risk considerations have models that adopt the microeconomic theory of demand and
been part of our Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment supply to determine price changes based on sustainability
Process submissions since 2019. Our approach for assessing transition costs in different sectors of the economy. The model
climate risk impact on capital adequacy has improved from accounts for several key market dynamics, such as sensitivities
qualitative judgements to quantitative simulations with with respect to price, revenue, cost, and profit due to changes
the availability of tools and greater understanding of in carbon prices. The model is calibrated at portfolio level,
our portfolio. covering priority sectors that are carbon-intensive and a
generic model that covers non-priority sectors.
As understanding of climate risk management and potential
forward-looking scenarios develop, our approach and For retail mortgages, an asset haircut model was developed
assessment will evolve, including using a wide range of to assess physical climate risk impact by estimating the
scenario outcomes to determine any potential capital-related devaluation of property values along different climate
impact in the future. pathways. The model takes input from the current and
prospective risk profile of a property, which captures the
From a liquidity risk perspective, we have started monitoring evolution of various hazard types, including river floods
climate risk-related vulnerabilities and readiness of the top and storms.
corporate client liquidity portfolios, leveraging the client
outreach and data gathering exercise being undertaken on For sovereigns, the climate adjusted Probability of Defaults
the asset side. The most recent exposure concentration in is derived by considering benchmarks from the Cambridge
the ‘high transition risk and low readiness’ bucket is broadly Paper (Klusak et al., 2021) and incorporating the country
comparable to what we see for our top corporate client risk rankings currently used by the Group, which covers both
exposures on the asset side. Liquidity providers with high physical and transition risks.
transition risk and low readiness are from commodity Apart from models that are used to estimate ECL, we have
traders and utilities sectors. The results of the analysis have also developed temperature alignment models that assess
been considered as part of our internal liquidity adequacy implied temperature rise scores for corporate counterparties.
assessment process and we continue to monitor the profile. The model methodology is forward-looking and compares
the forecasted emissions of a counterparty to relevant
Model Risk benchmark scenarios. The cumulative difference in emissions
Throughout 2023, we have been building our internal climate between the counterparty’s forecast and the benchmark
risk modelling capabilities to assess impacts from climate risk, scenarios is converted into a temperature score. The output
through collaboration with various external vendors. These from temperature alignment models will support internal
models have been independently validated by the second line climate risk management processes. We have also partnered
of defence and approved by the Credit Model Assessment with external vendors for a scenario expansion model which
Committee, and were used to estimate climate impact on has been used to for NGFS Version 3 scenarios.
ECL for IFRS9. The amount of incremental ECL as a result of
climate risk was below the Group’s materiality threshold Assessing the resilience of our strategy using
and as such was not included as a quantitative post model scenario analysis
adjustment. In future, the models will also be used for stress
To assess climate-related risks and opportunities in the
testing. The development of internal climate risk models
short, medium, and long-term we use scenario analysis to
has helped us to reduce reliance on external vendor models,
consider how risks and opportunities may evolve under
and we will continue to enhance our internal capabilities
different situations. Over two years, we have progressively
by extending model coverage (e.g. to develop models to
strengthened our scenario analysis capabilities and
cover more portfolios, or to develop more granular sector-
developed our infrastructure and capabilities to incorporate
specific models) and incorporating model enhancements
climate risk into data, modelling, and analysis. We have
recommended by internal and external stakeholders.
expanded our portfolio coverage, built bespoke scenarios,
and participated in several regulatory climate stress tests in
2023, including the Hong Kong Monetary Authority (HKMA)
and the Central Bank United Arab Emirates stress tests.
Scenarios used at Standard Chartered
The table below summarises the climate risk scenarios used internally by the Group across risk types:
Number of Refer
Risk Types Scenario Family Scenarios Risk Measure Page no
Credit Risk – Corporate, Commercial Network for Greening the Financial 3 ECL, RWA 311
and Institutional Banking (CCIB) System (NGFS) Version 3
Credit Risk – CCIB Bespoke (Tail and Base) 3 ECL, RWA 311
Credit Risk – Consumer, Private and Intergovernmental Panel on 3 Exposure Concentration to 298
Business Banking (CPBB) Climate Change’s (IPCC) sea level rise risk
Representative concentration
pathways (RCP) scenarios
Operational and Technology Risk IPCC’s RCP 8.5 scenario 1 Physical Risk Concentration 308
for sea level rise risk and heat
stress to our own operations
Reputational and NGFS Version 3 2 Weighted Average 305
Sustainability Risk Temperature Alignment
Traded Risk Bespoke (two Physical scenarios 3 Stressed Loss 308
and one Transition scenario)
Risk review Risk profile
In addition to the internal scenarios, Standard Chartered Bank (Hong Kong) Limited is responding to two HKMA mandated
climate risk stress tests to (i) assess the impact on capital for short tenor scenarios across credit, traded and operational risks
and (ii) a 30-year scenario based on NGFS Version 3 scenarios. The hybrid bespoke short-term five-year scenario has elements
of a macro recession, transition, and physical risk events such as typhoons in Hong Kong, heatwave, and precipitation in China.
We have used our existing stress testing models to model the credit risk impact with overlays provided for physical and
transition risk using data on client transition mitigation readiness, climate adjusted asset level haircuts, assumptions on
stranded assets for consumer mortgages and other available data. For Operational and Technology risk, we are assessing
the impact of damage to our premises and business disruption.
Transition (T) and Physical (P) Risk scenarios
We adapted the following scenarios for our CCIB portfolio:
Scenario Family Scenario Name Key Features
NGFS v3 Net Zero 2050 (T) Global warming limited to 1.5°C through stringent climate policies and innovation
Global net zero CO emissions around 2050
2
Delayed Transition (T) Strong policies will be needed to limit warming to below 2°C
Annual emissions do not decrease until 2030
Current Policies (P+T) No additional policies beyond those currently implemented, along with slow
technology change
Global temperature rises over 3 degrees by 2100
Bespoke In-house Base Case (P+T) Credibility assessment of countries’ current sector targets in the short-term (2030)
and a durability assessment of reduction commitments in the long-term (2050)
Delayed transition to a low-carbon economy and a lack of early climate action
resulting in a 2.5°C temperature rise by 2100
‘Green Trade War’ Tail (T) Impact to global trade due to introduction of Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism
leading to trade war escalation
Explores risks which are not addressed by NGFS scenarios and may emerge over a
short-term horizon
‘Migration’ Tail (P) Increasing severe acute weather events globally impact global food prices and drive
migration and displacement
The scenarios used for CCIB clients are characterised by different levels of physical and transition risk, driven by various features
in each scenario.
Carbon price: increase in carbon price puts additional cost pressure on clients, squeezes the profit margin, and thus helps to
determine level of potential credit losses.
Oil price: increase (or lack thereof) in oil price impacts on clients’ revenues and profitability and thus helps to determine level
of potential credit losses.
Features of the NGFS and bespoke scenarios used in a Standard Chartered scenario analysis
NGFS v3 Bespoke Scenarios
Net Zero Delayed Current Tail Risk Tail Risk
Feature Year 2050 Transition policices (Physical) (Transition)
Temperature rise 2050 1.4°C 1.6°C 3°C+ NA NA
Carbon price ($2015/tCO²) 2030 124 6 6 61 66
2050 487 416 7 70 90
Oil price ($2015/boe) 2030 84 94 94 50 50
2050 107 118 125 41 41
Gas price change (vs 2020, %) 2030 56% 43% 43% 15% 15%
2050 52% 54% 80% -14% -14%
Power demand change (vs 2020, %) 2030 27% 35% 35% 20% 20%
2050 120% 129% 106% 75% 75%
GDP baseline change (vs 2020, %) 2030 34% 36% 36% -4% -5%
2050 111% 110% 118% -2% -5%
310 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 311
Risk
review
and
Capital
review
Physical risk scenarios
We adapted the following scenarios for our CPBB portfolio. The table below summarises acute and chronic hazards outputs we
currently use in the Munich Re’s Location Risk Intelligence Platform tool.
Scenario Family Scenario Name Key Features
IPCC (2050, 2100) RCP 2.6 (P) Pathways of Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and atmospheric concentrations, air
RCP 4.5 (P) pollutant emissions and land use to project their consequences for the climate system
RCP 8.5 (P) Current and Projected Hazard scores from Munich Re model:
• Tropical cyclone zones
• River flood zones
• Sea level rise zones
• Heat stress index based on range of high-temperature indicators
• Precipitation stress index based on heavy- precipitation indicators
• Climatological index for wildfire hazard
• Drought stress index based on Standardised Precipitation- Evapotranspiration Index
Scenario analysis results for CCIB
We assessed the impact of climate-related risks on our corporate, sovereign, and financial institutions clients under different
climate scenarios. This assessment, across the NGFS and bespoke scenarios, covered approximately 95 per cent of our CCIB
portfolio for these clients, primarily reflective of the gross transition risks. While client-level transition plans were not factored
into the modelling, they were referenced to draw additional insights for priority sectors.
Scenarios used in Standard Chartered Scenario Analysis¹:
Loan impairment for corporate portfolio
Tail
Transition
Delayed Tail
Transition Physical
SCB
In-house
Net Zero
2050
Current
Policies
1 The size of the bubble is indicative of the gross expected losses
assessed for 94% of our corporate portfolio
ksir
hgiH
ksir
woL
Low risk High risk
ksiR
noitisnarT
Physical Risk
The loan impairment (LI) intensity which measures the level of gross ECL against the exposure at default (EAD) enables us to
assess the relative size of our exposure subject to potential losses from climate risks. As the graph below illustrates, LI intensities
do not go beyond 3 per cent during the forecast horizon for the climate scenarios considered in our scenario analysis. We expect
our LI intensity to rise the most in the NGFS Net Zero 2050 scenario. This is reflective of the high transition risks noted by higher
carbon prices, coupled with the needs for greater investment to move to a low carbon economy. The NGFS Delayed Transition
scenario also projects high LI intensity reflecting that such delayed transition will be equally disruptive due to lower levels of
innovations that limits the ability to decarbonise effectively, and rising carbon prices that squeeze profit margins. Relatively
lower LI intensity observed in the NGFS Current Policies scenario reflects the nascent modelling capabilities on assessing the
physical risk impact to client asset locations and second-order impacts, such as that on the supply chain.
Risk review Risk profile
Among the bespoke scenarios, we expect our LI intensity to rise the most in the tail transition risk scenario. This is reflective of
the potential risks to the global economy and subsequent increase in credit losses that may manifest due to the climate subsidy
competition and introduction of carbon border adjustment mechanism. Overall, we believe that the level of potential credit
losses can be mitigated by continuing to take necessary actions which the Group is already doing across sectors, engaging
with our clients on this topic and supporting them in enhancing their climate transition plans.
Loan Impairment intensities for the NGFS and bespoke scenarios (December 2022 snapshot)
Current policies Delayed transition Net Zero 2050
3.0%
SCB in-house Tail Physical Tail Transition
2.5%
2.0%
2.7%
to
0.7%
1.5%
1.0%
0.5%
0%
2022 2026 2030 2035 2040 2045 2050
LI Intensity is calculated as gross ECL over EAD
For corporate clients, we focused on the below sectors that have been identified as more vulnerable to potential climate
impacts. As of December 2022, these sectors represented 55 per cent of our corporate portfolio.
Loan Impairment intensities for key corporate sectors for the NGFS and bespoke scenarios
NGFS Net Zero NGFS Delayed NGFS Current Bespoke Bespoke Tail Bespoke Tail
Long Term - 2050 EAD 2050 Transition policices Baseline Transition Risk Physical Risk
Automobiles & Components 4% Medium Medium Low Low Medium Medium
Construction 7% Medium Medium Low Medium Medium Medium
Consumer Durables & Apparel 6% Medium Medium Low Low Medium Medium
CRE 8% Low Low Low Low Medium Low
Metal & Mining 5% Medium Medium Low Low Medium Low
O&G 11% High High Low Medium High Medium
Telecomms 2% Medium Medium Low Low Low Low
Transportation 9% High Medium Medium Medium High Medium
Utilities 3% Medium Low Low Low Medium Low
Total portfolio 100% Medium Medium Low Low Medium Medium
As observed in the table above, O&G and transportation sectors are most impacted by a higher LI intensity level across the
scenarios. Higher carbon prices, decrease in O&G demand characterised in the NGFS Net Zero 2050 and NGFS Delayed
Transition scenario are the main drivers for higher LI levels for these sectors. The extreme phsycial and transition risk events
occurring in the short term and their longer term second order impacts on the global economy result in the higher LI Intensity
levels for these sectors in 2050.
312 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 313
Risk
review
and
Capital
review
The results are used to assess the impact of climate change As more solution providers become available and banks start
on our portfolio and provide the management information extensively using them to build internal understanding and
to monitor stressed LI over the next five-year horizon under capabilities, the transparency and sophistication of modelling
plausible and extreme climate scenarios. The results also methodologies and assumptions will increase. Despite these
form part of our Climate Risk Assessments (CRAs). Whilst limitations, our intention is to focus on how climate risk
further enhancements are required to improve our modelling management can inform portfolio management and support
capabilities, the results of scenario analysis have provided opportunity identification with clients on their transition and
further validation to the actions we are taking as a Group in adaptation pathways. Work is under way to build capability
terms of our net zero ambitions and strategy and qualitative from a people, process, and technology perspective to
management actions in terms of improving the data quality support stress tests at country level, including in-house
and building in-house modelling expertise. The results have training and a plan to implement the in-house models in
been subject to internal governance, including review and the Group infrastructure.
challenge by an expert panel and discussion at the Climate
Risk Management Committee and Board Risk Committee.
Scenario analysis results for CPBB
As part of our internal climate scenario analysis for CPBB,
we carried out physical risk assessments for rising sea levels
for our top 10 retail mortgage markets. The concentration of
the Group’s portfolio exposure exposed to extreme rising sea
levels risk has been observed to remain stable at 2 per cent in
the most extreme RCP 8.5 scenario.
Further details on the metrics used in the climate scenario
analysis for CPBB can be found in pages 298 and 299
We measured the impact of physical risk on ECL to the retail
mortgage portfolio for four key markets (Hong Kong, China,
Taiwan and Korea) as part of the HKMA stress test exercise.
For our key residential mortgage markets, we have
collaborated with our academic partner (Imperial College
London) to develop an internal model for revaluating
property valuations under different climate scenarios
using the forward-looking risk indices from Munich Re.
These revaluations are then used to inform haircuts on the
property prices and arrive at climate adjusted ECL values
for the mortgage book.
Limitations and next steps
Despite the efforts in gathering transition risk data relating to
our CPBB credit portfolios, gaps still exist across our footprint
markets, and we have not been able to run a forward-looking
transition risk scenario for CPBB. We have a plan to address
these data gaps by working with third parties, engaging
clients to gather more information, and using appropriate
proxies for remaining data gaps.
Many of the assumptions and methodologies that underpin
the scenario analysis continue to rely significantly on nascent
methodologies as well as a dependence on first generation
models and data challenges. Many of these limitations are
shared across the industry. Given the complexities of climate
modelling, it should also be noted that the results do not
include the real-world aspects such as the non-linear shifts
and complex feedback loops. However, they are intended
to provide a strategic direction of the sense of portfolio
concentrations subject to potential climate losses.
Risk review Risk management approach
Enterprise Risk Management Framework
Risk management is at the heart of banking, it is what we do.
Managing risk effectively is how we drive commerce and
prosperity for our clients and our communities, and it is how
we grow sustainably and profitably as an organisation.
Effective risk management is essential in delivering consistent Strategic risk management
and sustainable performance for all our stakeholders and is The Group’s approach to strategic risk management includes
a central part of the financial and operational management the following:
of the Group. The Group adds value to clients and the
communities in which they operate by balancing risk and • Risk identification: impact analyses of risks that arise from
reward to generate returns for shareholders. the Group’s growth plans, strategic initiatives, and business
model vulnerabilities are reviewed. This assesses how
The Enterprise Risk Management Framework (ERMF) enables existing risks have evolved in terms of relative importance
the Group to manage enterprise-wide risks, with the objective or whether new risks have emerged.
of maximising risk-adjusted returns while remaining within our
Risk Appetite (RA). The ERMF is embedded across the Group, • Risk Appetite: impact analysis is performed to assess if
including its branches and subsidiaries1, and is reviewed strategic initiatives can be achieved within RA and highlight
annually. The latest version is effective from January 2024. areas where additional RA should be considered.
• Stress testing: the risks highlighted during the strategy
Annual review review and other risk identification processes are used
In the 2023 review, the concepts of Integrated Risk Types (IRTs) to develop scenarios for enterprise stress tests. In order
and IRT Owner roles were discontinued. Oversight on IRTs, to ensure that the Group’s Strategy remains within the
i.e. Climate Risk, Digital Assets and Third Party Risk, is approved RA, the Group Chief Risk Officer (GCRO) and
provided through the Risk Type Frameworks (RTFs) and Group Chief Financial Officer (GCFO) recommend strategic
relevant dedicated policies. The subject matter experts as actions based on the stress test results.
policy owners for these risks provide overall governance
and a holistic view of how risks are monitored and managed Roles and responsibilities
across the Principal Risk Types (PRTs).
Senior Managers Regime2
Risk culture Roles and responsibilities under the ERMF are aligned to the
objectives of the Senior Managers Regime (SMR). The GCRO
Risk culture encompasses our general awareness, attitudes,
is responsible for the overall development and maintenance
and behaviours towards risk, as well as how risk is managed
of the Group’s ERMF and for identifying material risks which
at enterprise level.
the Group may be exposed to. The GCRO delegates effective
A healthy risk culture is one in which everyone takes personal implementation of the RTFs to Risk Framework Owners
responsibility to identify and assess, openly discuss, and (RFO) who provide second line of defence oversight for their
take prompt action to address existing and emerging risks. respective PRTs.
We expect those in our control functions to provide oversight
In addition, the GCRO is the senior manager responsible
and challenge constructively, collaboratively, and in a timely
for the development of the Group’s Digital Assets Risk
manner. This effort is reflected in our valued behaviours,
Assessment Approach, and management of Climate Risk.
underpinned by our Code of Conduct and Ethics, and
reinforced by how we hire, develop, reward our people, serve
our clients, and contribute to communities around the world.
The risks we face constantly evolve, and we must always look
for ways to manage them as effectively as possible. While
unfavourable outcomes will occur from time to time, a healthy
risk culture means that we react quickly and transparently.
We can then take the opportunity to learn from our
experience and improve our framework and processes.
1 The Group’s ERMF and System of Internal Control applies only to wholly controlled subsidiaries of the Group, and not to Associates, Joint Ventures or Structured
Entities of the Group.
2 Senior managers refers to individuals designated as senior management functions under the FCA and PRA Senior Managers Regime.
314 Standard Chartered — Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered — Annual Report 2023 315
Risk
review
and
Capital
review
The Risk function Risk Appetite and profile
The Risk function provides oversight and challenge on the The Group recognises the following constraints which
Group’s risk management, ensuring that business is conducted determine the risks that we are willing to take in pursuit of our
in line with regulatory expectations. The GCRO directly strategy and the development of a sustainable business:
manages the Risk function, which is independent from the
• Risk capacity is the maximum level of risk the Group can
origination, trading, and sales functions of the businesses.
assume, given its current capabilities and resources, before
The Risk function is responsible for:
breaching constraints determined by capital and liquidity
• Determining the RA for approval by Group’s Management requirements or the internal operational environment, or
Team (GMT) and the Board. otherwise failing to meet the expectations of regulator and
law enforcement agencies.
• Maintaining the ERMF, ensuring that it remains relevant
and appropriate to the Group’s business activities, and • RA is defined by the Group and approved by the Board.
is effectively communicated and implemented across It is the boundary for the risk that the Group is willing
the Group. to undertake to achieve its strategic objectives and
Corporate Plan.
• Ensuring that risks are properly assessed, risk and return
decisions are transparent and risks are controlled in The Board is responsible for approving the RA Statements,
accordance with the Group’s standards and RA. which are underpinned by a set of financial and operational
control parameters known as RA metrics and their associated
• Overseeing and challenging the management of PRTs
thresholds. These directly constrain the aggregate risk
under the ERMF.
exposures that can be taken across the Group.
• Ensuring that the necessary balance in making risk and
The Group RA is reviewed at least annually to ensure that it is
return decisions is not compromised by short-term pressures
fit for purpose and aligned with strategy, with focus given to
to generate revenues through the independence of the
new or emerging risks.
Risk function.
In addition, the Risk function provides specialist Risk Appetite Framework
capabilities relevant to risk management processes The Group RA is defined in accordance with risk
in the broader organisation. management principles that inform our overall approach
to risk management and our risk culture. We set RA to
The Risk function supports the Group’s strategy by building
enable us to grow sustainably whilst managing our risks,
a sustainable ERMF that places regulatory and compliance
giving confidence to our stakeholders.
standards, together with culture of appropriate conduct,
at the forefront of the Group’s agenda. The Group RA is supplemented by risk control tools such as
granular-level limits, policies, standards, and other operational
Our Conduct, Financial Crime and Compliance (CFCC)
control parameters that are used to maintain the Group’s risk
function works alongside the Risk function within the ERMF
profile within approved RA.
to deliver a unified second line of defence.
Risk Appetite Statement
Three lines of defence model
The Group will not compromise compliance with its Risk
The Group applies a three line of defence model to its
Appetite in order to pursue revenue growth or higher returns.
day-to-day activities for effective risk management,
and to reinforce a strong governance and control See Table 1 for the set of RA statements.
environment. Typically:
Risk identification and assessment
• The businesses and functions engaged in or supporting
revenue generating activities that own and manage the Identification and assessment of potentially adverse risk
risks constitute the first line of defence. events is an essential first step in managing the risks of any
business or activity. To ensure consistency in communication,
• The control functions, independent of the first line of
we use PRTs to classify our risk exposures.
defence, that provide oversight and challenge of risk
management activities act as the second line of defence. We also recognise the need to maintain a holistic
perspective since:
• Internal Audit acts as the third line of defence providing
independent assurance on the effectiveness of controls • a single transaction or activity may give rise to multiple
supporting the activities of the first and second line of types of risk exposure;
defence functions.
• risk concentrations may arise from multiple exposures that
are closely correlated; and
• a given risk exposure may change its form from one risk
type to another.
Standard Chartered — Annual Report 2023 317
Risk
review
and
Capital
review
Principal Risk Types
PRTs are those risks that are inherent in our strategy and business model and have been formally defined in the Group’s ERMF.
These risks are managed through distinct RTFs which are approved by the GCRO.
The PRTs and associated RA Statements are reviewed annually.
The table below shows the Group’s current PRTs.
Table 1: Principal Risk Types Definition and RA Statement
Principal Risk Types Definition Risk Appetite Statement
Credit Risk Potential for loss due to failure of a counterparty to The Group manages its credit exposures following the
meet its agreed obligations to pay the Group. principle of diversification across products, geographies,
client segments and industry sectors.
Traded Risk Potential for loss resulting from activities undertaken The Group should control its financial markets and
by the Group in financial markets. activities to ensure that market and counterparty
credit risk losses do not cause material damage to
the Group’s franchise.
Treasury Risk Potential for insufficient capital, liquidity, or funding The Group should maintain sufficient capital, liquidity
to support our operations, the risk of reductions in and funding to support its operations, and an interest
earnings or value from movements in interest rates rate profile ensuring that the reductions in earnings
impacting banking book items and the potential for or value from movements in interest rates impacting
losses from a shortfall in the Group’s pension plans. banking book items does not cause material damage
to the Group’s franchise. In addition, the Group should
ensure its pension plans are adequately funded.
Operational and Potential for loss resulting from inadequate or failed The Group aims to control operational and technology
Technology Risk internal processes, technology events, human error, risks to ensure that operational losses (financial or
or from the impact of external events (including reputational), including any related to conduct of
legal risks). business matters, do not cause material damage to
the Group’s franchise.
Financial Crime Potential for legal or regulatory penalties, material The Group has no appetite for breaches in laws and
Risk1 financial loss or reputational damage resulting regulations related to Financial Crime, recognising
from the failure to comply with applicable laws that whilst incidents are unwanted, they cannot be
and regulations relating to international sanctions, entirely avoided.
anti-money laundering and anti-bribery and
corruption, and fraud.
Compliance Risk Potential for penalties or loss to the Group or for an The Group has no appetite for breaches in laws and
adverse impact to our clients, stakeholders or to the regulations related to regulatory non-compliance;
integrity of the markets we operate in through a recognising that whilst incidents are unwanted, they
failure on our part to comply with laws, or regulations. cannot be entirely avoided.
Information and Risk to the Group’s assets, operations, and individuals The Group aims to mitigate and control ICS risks to
Cyber Security Risk due to the potential for unauthorised access, use, ensure that incidents do not cause the Bank material
disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction of harm, business disruption, financial loss or reputational
information assets and/or information systems. damage – recognising that whilst incidents are
unwanted, they cannot be entirely avoided.
Reputational and Potential for damage to the franchise (such as loss The Group aims to protect the franchise from material
Sustainability Risk of trust, earnings or market capitalisation), because damage to its reputation by ensuring that any business
of stakeholders taking a negative view of the Group activity is satisfactorily assessed and managed with
through actual or perceived actions or inactions, the appropriate level of management and governance
including a failure to uphold responsible business oversight. This includes a potential failure to uphold
conduct as we strive to do no significant responsible business conduct in striving to do no
environmental and social harm through our client, significant environmental and social harm.
third party relationships, or our own operations.
Model Risk Potential loss that may occur because of decisions or The Group has no appetite for material adverse
the risk of mis-estimation that could be principally implications arising from misuse of models or errors
based on the output of models, due to errors in the in the development or implementation of models;
development, implementation, or use of such models. whilst accepting some model uncertainty.
1 Fraud forms part of the Financial Crime RA Statement but in line with market practice does not apply a zero-tolerance approach
In addition to the PRTs, there is a RA statement for Climate Risk: “The Group aims to measure and manage financial and
non-financial risks arising from climate change, and reduce emissions related to our own activities and those related to the
financing of clients in alignment with the Paris Agreement.”
Risk review Risk management approach
ERMF effectiveness reviews Ongoing ffectiveness reviews allow for a structured approach
The GCRO is responsible for annually affirming the to identify improvement opportunities and build plans to
effectiveness of the ERMF to the BRC via an effectiveness address them.
review. This review uses evidence-based self-assessments for In 2024, the Group aims to further strengthen its risk
all the RTFs and relevant policies. A top-down review and management practices by improving the management of
challenge of the results is conducted by the GCRO with all non-financial risks within its businesses, functions and across
RFOs and an opinion on the internal control environment is our footprint.
provided by Group Internal Audit.
The ERMF effectiveness review enables measurement Executive and Board risk oversight
of year-on-year progress. The key outcomes of the 2023
Overview
review are:
The Board has ultimate responsibility for risk management
• Continued focus on embedding the ERMF across the and is supported by five core Board level committees. The
organisation. Board approves the ERMF based on the recommendation
from the BRC, which also recommends the Group RA
• Financial risks continue to be more effectively managed
Statement for all PRTs. In addition, the Culture and
and the Group continues to make good progress in
Sustainability Committee oversees the Group’s culture
embedding non-financial risk management.
and key sustainability priorities.
• Other aspects of the ERMF, including the key risk
committees and key supporting standards, are established. Board and Executive level risk committee governance
structure
• Country-led self-assessments ensure adherence to the
ERMF. Country and regional risk committees continue to The Committee governance structure below presents the
play an active role in managing and overseeing material view as of 2023.
issues arising in countries.
Board of Directors
Board level committees
Board Risk Culture and Remuneration Governance Audit
Committee Sustainability Committee and Committee
Committee Nomination
Committee
Group Risk Committee Group Risk Committee sub-committees
The GRC, which derives its authority from the GCRO, is • The Group Non-Financial Risk Committee (GNFRC),
responsible for ensuring the effective management of risk chaired by the Global Head, Risk, Functions and
throughout the Group in support of the Group’s strategy. Operational Risk, governs the non-financial risks throughout
The GCRO chairs the GRC, whose members are drawn the Group, in support of the ERMF and the Group’s strategy.
from the Group Management Team. The GRC oversees The GNFRC also reviews the adequacy of the internal
the effective implementation of the ERMF for the Group, control system across in-scope PRTs.
including the delegation of any part of its authorities to
• The Group Financial Crime Risk Committee (GFCRC),
appropriate individuals or sub-committees.
chaired by the Group Head, CFCC, governs the Financial
Crime Risk Type (excluding Fraud Risk and Secondary
Reputational Risk arising from Financial Crime Risk).
The GFCRC ensures that the Financial Crime Risk profile
is managed within RA and policies.
318 Standard Chartered — Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered — Annual Report 2023 319
Risk
review
and
Capital
review
• The Group Responsibility and Reputational Risk • The Regulatory Interpretation Committee, co-chaired by
Committee (GRRRC), chaired by the Group Head, CFCC, the Global Head ERM and Group Head, Central Finance,
ensures the effective management of Reputational and provides oversight of material regulatory interpretations
Sustainability Risk across the Group. This includes providing for the Capital Requirements Regulation (as amended by
oversight of matters arising from clients, products, UK legislation), the Prudential Regulatory Authority (PRA)
transactions and strategic coverage-related decisions rulebook and other relevant regulations impacting
and matters escalated by the respective RFOs. Group regulatory capital calculations and reporting.
The areas and risk types in scope are credit risk, traded
• The International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) 9
risk, operational risk, large exposures, leverage ratio
Impairment Committee, co-chaired by the Global Head
and securitisation.
Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) and Group Head,
Central Finance, ensures the effective management of • The Digital Assets Risk Committee, chaired by the Global
Expected Credit Loss (ECL) computations, as well as Head, ERM, oversees effective risk management of the
stage allocation of financial assets for quarterly Digital Assets (DA) Risk profile of the Group. This includes
financial reporting. providing oversight and subject matter expertise of DA Risk
matters arising from DA-related activities across the PRTs.
• The Model Risk Committee, chaired by the Global Head,
ERM, ensures the effective measurement and management
Group Asset and Liability Committee
of Model Risk in line with internal policies and RA.
The Group Asset and Liability Committee (GALCO) is chaired
• The Corporate, Commercial and Institutional Banking by the GCFO. Its members are drawn principally from the
(CCIB) Risk Committee, chaired by the Chief Risk Officer Management Team. GALCO is responsible for determining
(CRO), CCIB and Europe and Americas, ensures the effective the Group’s balance sheet strategy and for ensuring that,
management of risk throughout CCIB in support of the in executing the Group’s strategy, the Group operates within
Group’s strategy. RA and regulatory requirements relating to capital, loss-
• The Consumer, Private and Business Banking (CPBB) Risk absorbing capacity, liquidity, leverage, Interest Rate Risk in the
Committee, chaired by the CRO, CPBB, ensures the effective Banking Book (IRRBB), Banking Book Basis Risk and Structural
management of risk throughout CPBB in support of the Foreign Exchange Risk. It also monitors the structural impact
Group’s strategy. of decisions around sustainable finance, net zero and climate
risk. GALCO is also responsible for ensuring that internal and
• The Asia Risk Committee and the Africa and Middle East external recovery planning requirements are met.
Risk Committee are chaired by the CRO for the respective
region. These committees ensure the effective
management of risk in the regions in support of the
Group’s strategy.
• The Investment Committee, chaired by representatives
from the Risk function (CRO, Stressed Asset Group (SAG),
Chief Credit Officer), ensures the optimised wind-down of
the Group’s existing direct investment activities in equities,
quasi-equities (excluding mezzanine), funds and other
alternative investments (excluding debt/debt-like
instruments). This includes equity or quasi-equity stakes
obtained as a result of restructuring of distressed debt,
non-core equities and limited partner investments in funds
linked to CCIB and managed by the Credit and Portfolio
Management.
• The SC Ventures (SCV) Risk Committee, chaired by the
CRO, SCV, receives authority directly from the GCRO and
oversees the effective management of risk throughout
SCV and the portfolio of subsidiaries operating under SCV,
in support of the Group’s strategy.
• The Climate Risk Management Committee (CRMC),
chaired by the Global Head, ERM, oversees the effective
implementation of the Group’s Climate Risk Policy and
workplan. This includes relevant regulatory requirements
and covers Climate Risk related financial and non-
financial risks.
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 325
Risk
review
and
Capital
review
Treasury Risk
The Group defines Treasury Risk as the potential for Risk Appetite Statement
insufficient capital, liquidity, or funding to support our The Group should maintain sufficient capital,
operations, the risk of reductions in earnings or value liquidity and funding to support its operations, and
an interest rate profile ensuring that the reductions
from movements in interest rates impacting banking
in earnings or value from movements in interest
book items and the potential for losses from a shortfall
rates impacting banking book items does not
in the Group’s pension plans. cause material damage to the Group’s franchise.
In addition, the Group should ensure its pension
plans are adequately funded.
Roles and responsibilities Liquidity and Funding Risk
The Global Head, ERM is responsible for the RTF for Treasury At Group, regional and country level we implement various
Risk under the ERMF. business-as-usual and stress risk metrics to monitor and
manage liquidity and funding risk. This ensures that the Group
The Group Treasurer is supported by teams in Treasury and
maintains an adequate and well-diversified liquidity buffer,
Finance to implement the Treasury RTF as the first line of
as well as a stable funding base, and that it meets its liquidity
defence and is responsible for managing Treasury Risk.
and funding regulatory requirements. The approach to
At Regional and Country level, Chief Executive Officers (CEOs) managing risks and the RA is assessed annually through the
supported by Regional and Country level Finance and Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process. A funding
Treasury teams are responsible for managing Treasury Risk plan is also developed for efficient liquidity projections to
as the first line of defence. Regional Treasury CROs and ensure that the Group is adequately funded in the required
Country CROs for Treasury Risk (except Pension Risk) and currencies, to meet its obligations and client funding needs.
Head of Pensions (for Pension Risk) are responsible for The funding plan is part of the overall Corporate Plan process
overseeing and challenging the first line of defence. aligning to the capital requirements.
Mitigation Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Book
The Group develops policies to address material Treasury This risk arises from differences in the repricing profile, interest
Risks and aims to maintain its risk profile within RA. In order rate basis, and optionality of banking book assets liabilities
to do this, metrics are set against Capital Risk, Liquidity and and off-balance sheet items. IRRBB represents an economic
Funding Risk and IRRBB. Where appropriate, RA metrics are and commercial risk to the Group and its capital adequacy.
cascaded down to regions and countries in the form of Limits The Group monitors IRRBB against the RA.
and Management Action Triggers.
Pension Risk
Capital Risk Pension Risk is the potential for loss due to having to meet an
In order to manage Capital Risk, strategic business, and actuarially assessed shortfall in the Group’s pension plans.
capital plans (Corporate Plan) are drawn up covering a Pension obligation risk to a firm arises from its contractual or
five-year horizon which are approved by the Board annually. other liabilities to or with respect to an occupational pension
The plan ensures that adequate levels of capital, including plan or other long-term benefit obligation. For a funded plan
loss absorbing capacity, and an efficient mix of the different it represents the risk that additional contributions will need to
components of capital are maintained to support our strategy be made because of a future shortfall in the funding of the
and business plans. plan. Or, for unfunded obligations, it represents the risk that
the cost of meeting future benefit payments is greater than
Treasury is responsible for the ongoing assessment of
currently anticipated. The Pension Risk position against RA
the demand for capital and the updating of the Group’s
metric is reported to the GRC. This metric is calculated as the
capital plan.
total capital requirement (including both Pillar 1 and Pillar 2A
RA metrics including capital, leverage, Minimum Requirement capital) in respect of Pension Risk, expressed as a number of
for own funds and Eligible Liability (MREL) and double basis points of RWA.
leverage are assessed within the Corporate Plan to ensure
that the strategy can be achieved within risk tolerances. Recovery and Resolution Planning
In line with PRA requirements, the Group maintains a Recovery
Structural Foreign Exchange (FX) Risk Plan which is a live document to be used by management in
The Group’s structural FX position results from the Group’s the event of stress in order to restore the Group to a stable
non-US dollar investment in the share capital and reserves and sustainable position. The Recovery Plan includes a set of
of subsidiaries and branches. The FX translation gains, or recovery indicators, an escalation framework, and a set of
losses, are recorded in the Group’s translation reserves with management actions capable of being implemented during
a direct impact on the Group’s Common Equity Tier 1 ratio. a stress. A Recovery Plan is also maintained within each
major entity, and all recovery plans are subject to periodic
The Group contracts hedges to manage its structural FX
fire-drill testing.
position in accordance with the RA, and as a result the
Group has taken net investment hedges to partially cover
its exposure to certain non-US dollar currencies to mitigate
the FX impact of such positions on its capital ratios.
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 327
Risk
review
and
Capital
review
Operational and Technology Risk
The Group defines Operational and Technology risk as Risk Appetite Statement
the potential for loss resulting from inadequate or The Group aims to control operational and
failed internal processes, technology events, human technology risks to ensure that operational losses
(financial or reputational), including any related to
error, or from the impact of external events (including
conduct of business matters, do not cause material
legal risks).
damage to the Group’s franchise.
Changes to Third Party Risk The RCSA is used to determine the design strength and
With effect from January 2024, the Group has removed the reliability of each process, and requires:
IRT classification and formally included Third Party Risk as a • the recording of processes run by client segments, products,
sub risk under Operational and Technology Risk. Third Party and functions into a process universe;
Risk is defined as the potential for loss or adverse impact due
to the failure to manage the onboarding, lifecycle and exit • the identification of potential failures in these processes and
strategy of a third party. The Third Party Risk Management the related risks of such failures;
Policy and Standard, in conjunction with the respective • an assessment of the impact of the identified risks based on
PRT policies and standards, holistically set out the Group’s a consistent scale;
minimum controls requirements for the identification,
mitigation and management of risks arising from the • the design and monitoring of controls to mitigate prioritised
use of Third Parties. risks; and
• assessments of residual risk and timely actions for
Roles and responsibilities elevated risks.
The Operational and Technology RTF sets the roles and
Risks that exceed the Group’s Operational and Technology RA
responsibilities in respect of Operational and Technology risk
require treatment plans to address underlying causes.
for the Group. The Operational and Technology RTF defines
the Group’s Operational and Technology risk sub-types and
Governance committee oversight
sets standards for the identification, control, monitoring and
treatment of risks. These standards are applicable across all At Board level, the BRC oversees the effective management
PRTs and risk sub-types in the Operational and Technology of Operational and Technology risk. At the executive level,
RTF. The list of risk sub-types includes Execution Capability, the GRC is responsible for the governance and oversight of
Governance, Reporting and Obligations, Legal Enforceability, Operational and Technology risk for the Group. The GRC,
and Operational Resilience (including client service, change supported by the GNFRC, monitors the Group’s Operational
management, people management, safety and security, and Technology RA and relies on other key committees for
and technology risk). the management of Operational and Technology risk.
The Operational and Technology RTF reinforces clear Regional business segments and functional committees also
accountability for managing risk throughout the Group and provide governance oversight of their respective processes
delegates second line of defence responsibilities to identified and related Operational and Technology risk. In addition,
SMEs. For each risk sub-type, the subject matter expert sets Country Non-Financial Risk Committees (CNFRCs) oversee
policies and standards for the organisation to comply with, the management of Operational and Technology Risk at the
and provides guidance, oversight, and challenge over the country (or entity) level. In smaller countries, the responsibilities
activities of the Group. They ensure that key risk decisions are of the CNFRC may be exercised directly by the Country Risk
only taken by individuals with the requisite skills, judgement, Committee (for branches) or Executive Risk Committee
and perspective to ensure that the Group’s risk-return (for subsidiaries).
objectives are met.
Decision-making authorities and delegation
Mitigation The GCRO has delegated the RFO responsibilities associated
The Operational and Technology RTF sets out the Group’s with the Operational and Technology RTF to the Global Head
overall approach to the management of Operational of Risk, Functions and Operational Risk (GHRFOR).
and Technology risk in line with the Group’s Operational The Operational and Technology RTF is the formal
and Technology RA. This is supported by the Risk and mechanism through which the delegation of Operational
Control Self-Assessment (RCSA) which defines roles and and Technology Risk authorities is made. The GHRFOR places
responsibilities for the identification, control, and monitoring reliance on the respective SMEs for second line of defence
of risks (applicable to all PRTs, risk sub-types and IRTs). oversight of the relevant Operational and Technology risk
sub-types through the Operational and Technology RTF.
Risk review Risk management approach
Compliance Risk
The Group defines Compliance Risk as the potential for Risk Appetite Statement
penalties or loss to the Group or for an adverse impact The Group has no appetite for breaches in laws
to our clients, stakeholders or to the integrity of the and regulations related to regulatory non-
compliance; recognising that whilst incidents are
markets we operate in through a failure on our part
unwanted, they cannot be entirely avoided.
to comply with laws, or regulations.
Roles and responsibilities Governance committee oversight
The Group Head, CFCC as RFO for Compliance Risk provides Both Compliance Risk and the risk of non-compliance with
support to senior management on regulatory and compliance laws and regulations resulting from failed processes and
matters by: controls are reported at the respective country, business,
product, function, Risk and CFCC Non-Financial Risk
• providing interpretation and advice on CFCC regulatory
Committees. Relevant matters, as required, are further
requirements and their impact on the Group; and
escalated to the GNFRC and GRC. At Board level, oversight of
• setting enterprise-wide standards for management Compliance Risk is primarily provided by the Audit Committee,
of compliance risks through the establishment and and by the BRC for relevant issues.
maintenance of the Compliance RTF.
Whilst not a formal governance committee, the CFCC
The Group Head, CFCC also performs the FCA controlled Oversight Group provides oversight of CFCC risks including
function and senior management function of Compliance the effective implementation of the Compliance RTF. The
Risk oversight in accordance with the requirements set out by Regulatory Change Oversight Forum provides visibility and
the FCA. oversight of material and/or complex large-scale regulatory
change emanating from Financial Services regulators
All activities that the Group engages in must be designed
impacting Non-Financial Risks. The CFCC Policy Council
to comply with the applicable laws and regulations in the
provides oversight, challenge and direction to Compliance
countries in which we operate. The CFCC function provides
and FCC Policy Owners on material changes and positions
second line of defence oversight and challenge of the first
taken in CFCC-owned policies, including issues relating to
line of defence risk management activities that relate to
regulatory interpretation and Group’s CFCC RA.
Compliance Risk. Where Compliance Risk arises, or could
arise, from failure to manage another PRT or sub-type, the
Decision-making authorities and delegation
Compliance RTF outlines that the responsibility rests with the
respective RFO or control function to ensure that effective The Compliance RTF is the formal mechanism through
oversight and challenge of the first line of defence can be which the delegation of Compliance Risk authorities is
provided by the appropriate second line of defence function. made. The Group Head, CFCC has the authority to delegate
second line of defence responsibilities within the CFCC
Each of the assigned second line of defence functions have function to relevant and suitably qualified individuals.
responsibilities, including monitoring relevant regulatory
developments from Non-Financial Services regulators
Monitoring
at both Group and country levels, policy development,
The monitoring of controls designed to mitigate the risk of
implementation, and validation as well as oversight and
regulatory non-compliance in processes is governed in line
challenge of first line of defence processes and controls.
with the Operational and Technology RTF. The Group has a
In addition, the remit of CFCC has been further clarified in
monitoring and reporting process in place for Compliance
2023 in relation to Compliance risk and the boundary of
Risk, which includes escalation and reporting to Risk and
responsibilities with other PRTs.
CFCC Non-Financial Risk Committee, GNFRC, GRC, BRC,
and relevant Board committees.
Mitigation
The CFCC function is responsible for the establishment
and maintenance of policies, standards and controls to
ensure continued legal and regulatory compliance, and the
mitigation of Compliance Risk. In this, the requirements of
the Operational and Technology RTF are followed to ensure
a consistent approach to the management of processes
and controls.
The deployment of technological solutions to improve
efficiencies and simplify processes has continued in 2023.
These include launch of a new Regulatory Change
Management System for Group regulatory obligations
management, and further enhancement of the Ask
Compliance platform.
330 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 331
Risk
review
and
Capital
review
Information and Cyber Security (ICS) Risk
The Group defines ICS Risk as the risk to the Group’s Risk Appetite Statement
assets, operations, and individuals due to the potential The Group aims to mitigate and control ICS risks
for unauthorised access, use, disclosure, disruption, to ensure that incidents do not cause the Bank
material harm, business disruption, financial
modification, or destruction of information assets
loss or reputational damage - recognising that
and/or information systems.
whilst incidents are unwanted, they cannot be
entirely avoided.
Roles and responsibilities Decision-making authorities and delegation
The Group’s ICS RTF defines the roles and responsibilities The ICS RTF defines how the Group manages ICS Risk.
of the first and second lines of defence in managing and The Group CISRO delegates authority to designated
governing ICS Risk across the Group. It emphasises business individuals through the ICS RTF, including at a business,
ownership and individual accountability. function, region and country level.
The Group Chief Transformation, Technology & Operations The Group CISO is responsible for implementing ICS Risk
Officer (CTTO) has the first line of defence responsibility Management within the Group, and to cascade ICS risk
for ICS Risk and is accountable for the Group’s ICS strategy. management into the businesses, functions and countries
The Group Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) leads to comply with the ICS RTF, policy, and standards.
the development and execution of the ICS strategy. The first
line of defence also manages all key ICS Risks, breaches Monitoring
and risk treatment plans. ICS Risk profile, RA breaches and Group CISO performs a threat-led risk assessment to identify
remediation status are reported at Board and Executive key threats, in-scope applications and key controls required to
committees, alongside business, function and country ensure the Group remains within RA.
governance committees.
The ICS Risk profiles of all businesses, functions and countries
The Group Chief Information Security Risk Officer (CISRO) are consolidated to present a holistic Group-level ICS Risk
function within Group Risk is the second line of defence and profile for ongoing monitoring. Mandatory ICS learning,
sets the framework, policy, standards, and methodology for phishing exercises and role-specific training support
assessing, scoring, and prioritising ICS Risks across the Group. colleagues to monitor and manage this risk.
The ICS Policy and standards are aligned to industry best
practice models including the National Institute of Standards During these reviews, the status of each risk is assessed
and Technology Cyber Security Framework and ISO 27001. against the Group’s controls to identify any changes to
This function has the responsibility for governance, oversight, impact and likelihood, which affects the overall risk rating.
and independent challenge of first line of defence’s pursuit of Group CISO and Group CISRO monitor the ICS Risk profile and
the ICS strategy. Group ICS Risk Framework Strategy remains ensure that breaches of RA are escalated to the appropriate
the responsibility of the ICS RFO (RFO), delegated from the governance committee or authority levels for remediation and
GCRO to the Group CISRO. tracking. A dedicated Group CISRO team supports this work
by executing offensive security testing exercises, including
Mitigation vulnerability assessments and penetration tests, which show
ICS Risk is managed through the ICS RTF, comprising a a wider picture of the Group’s risk profile, leading to better
risk assessment methodology and supporting policy, visibility on potential ‘in flight’ risks. The Group also tracks
standards, and methodologies. These are aligned to remediation of security matters identified by external reviews
industry recommended practice. We undertake an annual such as the BoE CBEST Threat Intelligence-Led Assessment
ICS Effectiveness Review to evaluate ICS Risk management and the Hong Kong Monetary Authority’s (HKMA)
practices in alignment with the ERMF. Intelligence-led Cyber Attack Simulation Testing (iCAST).
Governance committee oversight
The BRC oversees the effective management of ICS Risk.
The GRC has delegated authority to the GNFRC to ensure
effective implementation of the ICS RTF. The GRC and GNFRC
are responsible for oversight of ICS Risk profile and RA
breaches. Sub-committees of the GNFRC have oversight of
ICS Risk management arising from the businesses, countries
and functions.
Risk review Risk management approach
Reputational and Sustainability Risk
The Group defines Reputational and Sustainability Risk Appetite Statement
Risk as the potential for damage to the franchise The Group aims to protect the franchise from
(such as loss of trust, earnings, or market capitalisation), material damage to its reputation by ensuring
that any business activity is satisfactorily assessed
because of stakeholders taking a negative view of the
and managed with the appropriate level of
Group through actual or perceived actions or inactions,
management and governance oversight. This
including a failure to uphold responsible business includes a potential failure to uphold responsible
conduct as we strive to do no significant environmental business conduct in striving to do no significant
environmental and social harm.
and social harm through our client, third party
relationships or our own operations.
Roles and responsibilities The Group’s Reputational Risk policy sets out the principal
The Global Head, ERM is responsible as RFO for Reputational sources of Reputational Risk driven by negative shifts in
and Sustainability Risk under the Group’s ERMF. stakeholder perceptions as well as responsibilities, control
and oversight standards for identifying, assessing, escalating
Our Reputational and Sustainability RTF allocates and effectively managing Reputational Risk. The assessment
responsibilities in a manner consistent with the three lines of of risks associated with how individual client, transaction,
defence model. product and strategic coverage decisions may affect
In the first line of defence, the Chief Sustainability Officer perceptions of the organisation and its activities is based
(CSO) manages the overall Group Sustainability strategy and on explicit principles including, but not limited to, human
engagements. A dedicated Sustainable Finance solutions rights and climate change. The assessment of stakeholder
team is responsible for sustainable finance products and perception risk considers a variety of factors. Whenever
frameworks to help identify green and sustainable finance, potential for stakeholder concerns is identified, issues are
and transition finance opportunities to aid our clients on their subject to review and decision by both first and second lines
sustainability journey. The CSO team works with businesses of defence.
to launch various sustainable finance products. Furthermore, The Group’s Sustainability Risk policy sets out the requirements
the Environmental and Social Risk Management (ESRM) team and responsibilities for managing environmental and social
provides dedicated advisory and challenge to businesses risks for the Group’s clients, third parties and in our own
on the management of environmental and social risks operations. This includes management of greenwashing risks
and impacts arising from the Group’s client relationships through the ongoing monitoring of Sustainable Finance
and transactions. products and transactions and clients throughout their
In the second line of defence, the responsibility for lifecycle, from labelling to disclosures in line with emerging
Reputational and Sustainability Risk management is local and international regulatory obligations.
delegated to the Group Environmental, Social, and Corporate • Clients are expected to adhere to the minimum regulatory
Governance (ESG) and Reputational Risk team, as well as and compliance requirements, including criteria from the
CROs at region, country and client-business levels. They Group’s Position Statements to sensitive sectors where
constitute the second line responsible to oversee and environmental and social risks are heightened. The Group
challenge the first line, which resides with the CEOs, business also defines the approach to certain specialist sectors
heads, product heads and function heads. The Group ESG where there are conflicting stakeholder views.
and Reputational Risk team is responsible for establishing
RA, framework and policies for managing Reputational • Third parties such as suppliers must comply with the Group’s
and Sustainability risk, in line with emerging regulatory Supplier Charter, which sets out the Group’s expectations
expectations across our markets. on ethics, anti-bribery and corruption, human rights,
environmental, health and safety standards, labour and
protection of the environment. The Group is committed to
Mitigation
respecting universal human rights, and we assess our clients
In line with the principles of Responsible Business Conduct and
and suppliers against various international principles, as
Do No Significant Harm, the Group deems Reputational and
well as through our social safeguards.
Sustainability Risk to be driven by:
• Within our operations, the Group seeks to minimise its
• negative shifts in stakeholder perceptions, including
impact on the environment and have targets to reduce
shifts as a result of greenwashing claims, due to decisions
energy, water and waste. We are committed to becoming
related to clients, products, transactions, third parties and
Net Zero in our own operations by 2025.
strategic coverage;
• We rely on our frameworks to help the labelling of
• potential material harm or degradation to the natural
Sustainable Finance Use of Proceeds products and
environment (environmental) through actions/inactions
transactions as well as the classification of pureplay clients.
of the Group; and
Reputational and Sustainability Risk policies and standards
• potential material harm to individuals or communities
are applicable to all Group entities. However, where local
(social) risks through actions/inactions of the Group.
regulators impose additional requirements, these are
complied with in addition to existing Group requirements.
332 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 333
Risk
review
and
Capital
review
Governance committee oversight Decision-making authorities and delegation
At Board level, the Culture and Sustainability Committee The Global Head, ERM delegates risk acceptance authorities
provides oversight for our Sustainability strategy while the BRC for stakeholder perception risks to designated individuals in
oversees Reputational and Sustainability Risk as part of the the first line and second line or to committees such as the
ERMF. The GRC provides executive level committee oversight GRRRC via risk authority matrices.
and delegates the authority to ensure effective management
These risk authority matrices are tiered at country, regional,
of Reputational and Sustainability Risk to the GRRRC.
business segment or Group levels and are established for
The GRRRC’s remit is to: risks incurred in strategic coverage, clients, products, or
transactions. For environmental and social risks, the ESRM
• Challenge, constrain and, if required, stop business activities
team reviews and supports the risk assessments for clients
where Reputational and Sustainability risks are not aligned
and transactions and escalates to the Group ESG and
with the Group’s RA;
Reputational Risk team as required.
• Make decisions on Reputational and Sustainability Risk
matters assessed as high or very high based on the Monitoring
Group’s Reputational and Sustainability Risk Materiality Exposure to stakeholder perception risks arising from
Assessment Matrix, and matters escalated from the regions transactions, clients, products and strategic coverage is
or client businesses; monitored through established triggers to prompt the
• Provide oversight of material Reputational and right levels of appropriate risk-based consideration and
Sustainability Risk and/or thematic issues arising from assessment by the first line and escalations to the second
the potential failure of other risk types; line where necessary. Risk acceptance decisions and
thematic trends are also reviewed on a periodic basis.
• Identify TERs, as part of a dynamic risk scanning process;
Exposure to Sustainability Risk is monitored through triggers
• Monitor existing or new regulatory priorities. embedded within the first line of defence processes.
The Sustainable Finance Governance Committee, appointed The Environmental and Social Risks are considered for
by the GRRRC, provides leadership, governance, and oversight clients and transactions via the environmental and social
for delivering the Group’s sustainable finance offering. risk assessments and for vendors in our supply chain through
This includes: the Modern Slavery questionnaires.
• Reviewing and supporting the Group’s frameworks for Furthermore, monitoring and reporting on the RA metrics
Green and Sustainable Products, and Transition Finance ensures that there is appropriate oversight by the MT and
for approval of GRRRC. These frameworks set out the Board over performance and breaches of thresholds across
guidelines for approval of products and transactions key metrics.
which carry the sustainable finance and/or transition
finance label;
• Decision-making authority on the eligibility of a sustainable
asset for any RWA relief;
• Approving sustainable finance and transition finance labels
for products in addition to regular product management
and governance;
• Reviewing the reputational risks arising from greenwashing
claims related to Sustainable Finance products and services.
The GNFRC has oversight of the control environment and
effective management of Reputational Risk incurred when
there are negative shifts in stakeholder perceptions of
the Group due to failure of other PRTs. The regional and
client-business risk committees provide oversight on the
Reputational and Sustainability Risk profile within their
remit. The CNFRC provides oversight of the Reputational
and Sustainability Risk profile at a country level.
Risk review Risk management approach
Model Risk
The Group defines Model Risk as potential loss that Risk Appetite Statement
may occur because of decisions or the risk of mis- The Group has no appetite for material adverse
estimation that could be principally based on the implications arising from misuse of models or errors
in the development or implementation of models;
output of models due to errors in the development,
whilst accepting some model uncertainty.
implementation, or use of such models.
Roles and responsibilities The main responsibilities of Country Model RFO are to
ensure model usage is correctly identified, a suitable local
The Global Head, ERM is the RFO for Model Risk under
governance process is established, and fundamental model
the Group’s ERMF. Responsibility for the oversight and
risk training is provided for respective country stakeholders.
implementation of the Model RTF is delegated to the
Global Head, Model Risk Management. Based on respective levels of regulatory expectations
regarding Model Risk, a tiering approach is adopted to
The Model RTF sets out clear accountability and roles for
provide appropriate risk-based levels of depth and rigour
Model Risk management through the three lines of defence
of the associated requirements.
model. First line of defence ownership of Model Risk resides
with Model Sponsors, who are business or function heads
and assign a Model Owner and provide oversight of Model Mitigation
Owner activities. Model Owners are accountable for the The Model Risk policy and standards define requirements
model development process, represent model users, are for model development and validation activities, including
responsible for the overall model design process, coordinate regular model performance monitoring. Any model issues or
the submission of models for validation and approval, deficiencies identified through the validation process are
and ensure appropriate implementation and use. Model mitigated through model monitoring, model overlays and/or
Developers are responsible for the development of models a model redevelopment plan, which undergoes robust review,
and are responsible for documenting and testing the model challenge, and approval. Operational controls govern all
in accordance with Policy requirements, and for engaging Model Risk-related processes, with regular risk assessments
with Model Users. performed to assess appropriateness and effectiveness of
those controls, in line with the Operational and Technology
Second line of defence oversight is provided by Model Risk
RTF, with remediation plans implemented where necessary.
Management, which comprises Group Model Validation
(GMV) to independently review and grade models, and the
Governance committee oversight
Model Risk Policy and Governance team, which provides
oversight of model risk activities and reports to senior At Board level, the BRC exercises oversight of Model Risk within
management via respective committees. the Group. At the executive level, the GRC has appointed the
Model Risk Committee to ensure effective measurement and
The Group adopts an industry standard model definition as management of Model Risk. Sub-committees such as the
specified in the Group Model Risk Policy, together with a scope Credit Model Assessment Committee, Traded Risk Model
of applicability represented by defined model family types as Assessment Committee and Financial Crime Compliance
detailed within the Model Risk Framework. Model Owners are Model Assessment Committee oversee their respective
accountable for ensuring that all models under their purview in-scope models and escalate material Model Risks to the
have been independently validated by GMV. Models are Model Risk Committee. In parallel, business and function-level
validated before use and then on an ongoing basis, with risk committees provide governance oversight of the models
schedule determined by the perceived level of model risk used in their respective processes.
associated with the model, or more frequently if there are
specific regulatory requirements.
Decision-making authorities and delegation
The Model Risk Framework is cascaded to in-scope The Model RTF is the formal mechanism through which the
countries by way of local addendum or local framework delegation of Model Risk authorities is made.
documentation, along with specific responsibilities of the
The Global Head, ERM delegates authorities to designated
Country Model RFO. In-scope countries are selected with
individuals or Policy Owners through the Model RTF. The
reference to regulatory capital requirements with credit risk
second line of defence ownership for Model Risk at country
(AIRB), counterparty credit risk Internal Model Method (IMM),
level is delegated to Country CROs at the applicable branches
or market risk Internal Model Approach (IMA) permissions
and subsidiaries.
for use of models for regulatory capital calculations; and
countries where regulators have stipulated specific model The Model Risk Committee is responsible for approving
risk requirements. Additional criteria, including financial models for use. Model approval authority is also delegated to
materiality, regulatory importance, presence of important the Credit Model Assessment Committee, Traded Risk Model
business services or critical economic functions are Assessment Committee, Financial Crime Compliance Model
also considered. Assessment Committee, and individual designated model
approvers for less material models.
334 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Risk review Risk management approach
Climate Risk (Oversight has moved to Reputational and Sustainability Risk
with effect from January 2024)
With effect from January 2024, the Group has Risk Appetite Statement
removed the IRT classification. Climate Risk is defined The Group aims to measure and manage financial
as the potential for financial loss and non-financial and non-financial risks arising from climate
change, and reduce emissions related to our own
detriments arising from climate change and society’s
activities and those related to the financing of
response to it. We are developing methodologies to
clients in alignment with the Paris Agreement.
identify, measure and manage the physical and
transition risks that we are exposed to through our
own operations, our suppliers, our clients, and the
markets we operate in.
Roles and responsibilities Decision-making authorities and delegation
The GCRO has the ultimate second line of defence and The Global Head, ERM is supported by a Climate Risk team
responsibility for Climate Risk, with support by the Global within the ERM function. The Global Head, ESG and
Head, ERM who has day-today oversight and central Reputational Risk is responsible for executing the delivery
responsibility for second line of defence Climate Risk activities. of the Climate Risk workplan which will define decision-
As Climate Risk is embedded into the relevant PRTs, second making authorities and delegations across the Group.
line of defence responsibilities lie with those RFOs (at Group,
regional and country level), with SME support from the central Monitoring
Climate Risk team. The Climate RA Statement is approved and reviewed annually
by the Board, following the recommendation of the BRC.
Mitigation
The Group has developed its first-generation Climate Risk
We have completed c.4,100 Climate Risk Assessments
reporting and Board/MT Level RA metrics and these will
(CRAs) in 2023 (c.85 - 90 per cent of the CCIB corporate
continue to be enhanced in 2024. Management information
portfolio limits), which measures transition risk of our clients.
and RA metrics are also being progressively rolled out at the
Concentration of Black and Red rated clients remain
regional and country level. Management information is
within proposed RA levels at 6 per cent. Linkages to Credit
reviewed at a quarterly frequency and any breaches in RA
Underwriting Principles have been finalised for four sectors
are reported to the GRC and BRC.
(Oil and Gas (O&G), Shipping, Commercial Real Estate (CRE)
and Mining), including improved climate-related analysis,
portfolio-level caps and additional data gathering measures.
A key focus area going forward is to embed Climate Risk and
net zero targets into business and credit decisions. To enable
this, we have established a Net Zero Climate Risk Working
Forum to facilitate discussions on account plans for high
Climate Risk and net zero divergent clients. As of September
2023, we have assessed physical risk for 79 per cent and
transition risk for 54 per cent of our CPBB book.
The focus for Operational and Technology Risk has been to
assess physical risks for our properties and data centres, as
well as third parties. Concentration of top corporate liquidity
providers to high transition risk and low levels of mitigation is
being monitored.
Governance committee oversight
Board level oversight is exercised through the BRC, with
regular updates on Climate Risk. At an executive level,
the GRC has appointed the Climate Risk Management
Committee (CRMC), which meets at least six times a year
to oversee the implementation of Climate Risk workplans
and monitoring the Group’s Climate Risk profile.
In 2023, we have strengthened country and regional
governance oversight for the Climate Risk profile across
our key markets by cascading identified RA metrics,
and rolling out climate risk management information.
336 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 337
Risk
review
and
Capital
review
Digital Assets Risk
With effect from January 2024, the Group has removed Risk Appetite Statement
the IRT classification. The Group recognises Digital As DA Risk manifests through the various PRTs,
Assets (DA) as an asset class which is managed under the individual RA statements for each PRT take
account of the risks specific to DAs.
the ERMF. DA Risk is defined as the potential for
regulatory penalties, financial loss and/or reputational
damage to the Group resulting from DA-related
activities arising from the Group’s businesses across
clients, products, investments and projects.
Roles and responsibilities Decision-making authorities and delegation
Senior managers within the first line of defence are The Global Head, ERM is supported by a centralised DA
responsible for the overall management of DA risks, initiatives Risk team within the ERM Function and is responsible for
and exposures that may arise within their business segments. the design and maintenance of the DARMA. Decision-
making authorities and delegation are defined in the
The GCRO has the second line of defence responsibility for
DA Policy, outlining the incremental responsibilities and
defining the Group’s framework for managing DA-related
the embedding of risk management within associated
risks, through the Digital Assets Risk Management Approach
policies and risk artefacts.
(DARMA). The GCRO is supported by the Global Head, ERM
and the Global Head, DA Risk Management, who have The businesses are responsible for implementation of the
day-to-day responsibility for second line of defence oversight DARMA and respective business governance forums,
of the DARMA. As DA Risk management is embedded into PRT RFOs and DA SMEs utilise decision-making authorities
the relevant PRTs, RFOs and dedicated SMEs across the PRTs granted to them by their respective businesses, PRTs or in
have second line of defence responsibilities of DA Risks for individual capacities to assess and approve DA activities
their respective PRTs. and exposures that may give rise to risk.
DA Risk follows prescribed robust risk management practices
Mitigation
across the PRTs, with specific expertise applied from DA
The Group deploys a DA Risk management policy (DA Policy) experts. Risk management practices are informed by the
to define the incremental risk management requirements for “Dear CEO” letters published by the PRA and the FCA in
DA-related activities under the DARMA. The respective PRTs June 2018, with updated notices in June 2022. Further
then include specific risk mitigation requirements within the guidance from the recent publication of the BCBS d545 on
relevant processes, policies and standards for their PRTs. DA the prudential treatment of crypto assets, which will be in
Risk Assessments are conducted on certain higher-risk effect from January 2025, has refined the risk management
DA-related projects and products. These risk assessments approach. DA is a developing area which will continue to
detail the specific inherent risks, residual risks, controls and mature and stabilise over time as the technology, together
mitigants across the PRTs, and are reviewed and supported with its use in financial services and associated research,
by the respective businesses, RFOs and DA SMEs. become more established.
Governance committee oversight Monitoring
Board level oversight is exercised through the BRC, and DA DA Risks are monitored through the existing Group RA metrics
Risk updates are provided to the Board and BRC, as requested. across the PRTs. In addition, specific DA Risk Management
At the executive level, the GRC oversees the risk management Monitoring level metrics are reviewed and monitored by the
of DA. The GCRO has also appointed a dedicated DA relevant individual PRTs. DA risk decisions relating to other
Risk Committee (DRC) consisting of senior business PRTs are taken within the authorities for the respective PRT.
representatives, RFOs and DA SMEs across the Group.
The DRC meets a minimum of four times per year to review
and assess the risk assessments related to DA Projects and
Products, discuss development and implementation of the
DARMA, and to provide structured governance around
DA Risk.
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 347
Financial
statements
Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified An overview of the scope of the parent company
any material uncertainties relating to events or conditions and group audits
that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt
on the Group and Company’s ability to continue as a going Tailoring the scope
concern for a period of twelve months from 23 February 2024. Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality
and our allocation of performance materiality determine
In relation to the Group and Parent Company’s reporting on
our audit scope for each component within the Group.
how they have applied the UK Corporate Governance Code,
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the
we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in
consolidated financial statements. We took into account
relation to the directors’ statement in the financial statements
the size, risk profile, the organisation of the Group and
about whether the directors considered it appropriate to
effectiveness of control environment, changes in the business
adopt the going concern basis of accounting.
environment and other factors such as the level of issues and
Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors misstatements noted in prior period when assessing the level
with respect to going concern are described in the relevant of work to be performed at each component.
sections of this report. However, because not all future
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group
events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is
financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate
not a guarantee as to the Group and Company’s ability
quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial
to continue as a going concern.
statements, of the 346 reporting units of the Group, we
selected 66 reporting units which represent 27 components
Overview of our audit approach
in 21 countries: Bahrain, Bangladesh, Hong Kong, India,
Audit scope • We performed an audit of the complete financial Indonesia, Japan, Jersey, Kenya, Mainland China, Malaysia,
information of 10 components in 8 countries Nigeria, Pakistan, Republic of Ireland, Republic of Korea,
and audit procedures on specific balances for Singapore, Sri Lanka, Taiwan, United Arab Emirates, United
a further 17 components in 14 countries. Kingdom, United States of America, and Zambia.
• In addition to the above, the Primary Audit
Team also performed full-scope audit The definition of a component is aligned with the structure
procedures on components related to the of the Group’s consolidation system, typically these are
Group consolidation process. either a branch, group of branches, group of subsidiaries
• The components where we performed full or (or associates), or a subsidiary.
specific audit procedures accounted for 78%
We took a centralised approach to auditing certain processes
of the absolute profit before tax (PBT), 87%
and controls, as well as the substantive testing of specific
of absolute operating income and 94% of
Total assets. balances. This included audit work over Group’s Global
Business Services shared services centre (SSC), Commercial,
Key audit • Credit impairment
Corporate and Institutional Banking SSC, Credit Impairment
matters • Basis of accounting and impairment assessment
SSC and Technology, as well as certain other matters audited
of China Bohai Bank (interest in associate)
centrally by the Primary Audit Team.
• Privileged Access Management
• Impairment of goodwill and investments in Of the 27 components selected in 21 countries, we
subsidiary undertakings performed an audit of the complete financial information
• Valuation of financial instruments held at of 10 components (“full scope components”) which were
fair value with higher risk characteristics selected based on their size or risk characteristics. For
Materiality • Overall group materiality of $274m which 14 components (“specific scope components”) we performed
represents 5% of Adjusted PBT. audit procedures on specific accounts within that component
that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact
on the significant accounts in the Group financial statements
either because of the size of these accounts or their risk
profile. We also instructed 3 locations to perform specified
procedures over certain aspects of credit impairment risk.
Group`s Absoulute PBT Group’s Total assets Group’s Absolute Operating Income
2023 2022 2023 2022 2023 2022
Full scope components 62% 72% 87% 87% 72% 79%
Specific scope components 15% 10% 7% 8% 14% 10%
Specified procedures 1% 0% 0.10% 0% 1% 0%
Total 78% 82% 94% 95% 87% 89%
Of the remaining reporting units that together represent 22%
of the Group’s absolute PBT, none are individually greater
than 2.3% of the Group’s absolute PBT. For the components
represented by these reporting units, we performed other
procedures at the Group level which included: performing
analytical reviews at the Group financial statement line item
level, evaluating entity level controls, performing audit
procedures on the centralised shared service centres, testing
of consolidation journals and intercompany eliminations,
inquiring with selected overseas EY teams on the outcome
of prior year local statutory audits (where audited by EY) to
identify any potential risks of material misstatement to the
Group financial statements.
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 349
Financial
statements
In addition to the site visits, the Primary Audit Team interacted Our audit effort in considering the impact of climate change
regularly with the component and SSC audit teams where on the financial statements was focused on evaluating
appropriate during various stages of the audit, reviewed whether management’s assessment of the impact of climate
relevant working papers and deliverables to the Primary risk, physical and transition, their climate commitments,
Audit Team, and were responsible for the scope and direction and the significant judgements and estimates disclosed in
of the audit process. note 1 have been appropriately reflected in the valuation of
assets and liabilities, where these can be reliably measured,
The Primary Audit Team also undertook video conference
following the currently effective requirements of UK adopted
meetings with component and SSC audit teams and
IAS and EU IFRS. This was in the context of the Group’s
management. These virtual meetings involved discussing
process being limited, given that this is an emerging area,
the audit approach and any issues arising from their work,
as a result of limitations in the data available and the
as well as performing remote reviews of key audit workpapers.
availability of sophisticated models, and as the Group
This, together with the procedures performed at Group level, considers how it further embeds its climate ambitions into
gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group the planning process.
and Company financial statements.
As part of this evaluation, we performed our own risk
assessment, supported by our climate change internal
Climate change
specialists, to determine the risks of material misstatement
Stakeholders are increasingly interested in how climate in the financial statements from climate change which
change will impact the economy, including the banking sector, needed to be considered in our audit.
and further how this may consequently impact the valuation
We also challenged the Directors’ considerations of
of assets and liabilities held on bank balance sheets. The
climate change risks in their assessment of going concern
Group manages climate risk according to the characteristics
and viability, and the associated disclosures. Where
of the impacted risk types and is embedding climate-risk
considerations of climate change were relevant to our
considerations into relevant frameworks, including principal
assessment of going concern, these are covered by the
risk type frameworks, and processes. The assessment of the
procedures described above.
risk by the Group is explained on pages 336 and 298-313 in the
“Risk review: Climate Risk” section, and on pages 90-133 in the Based on our work, we have considered the impact of climate
“Sustainability review” section of the Annual Report, where the change on the financial statements to impact certain key
Group has also explained their climate commitments. audit matters. Details of our procedures and findings are
All of these disclosures form part of the “Other information,” included in our explanation of key audit matters below.
rather than the audited financial statements. Our procedures
on these unaudited disclosures therefore consisted solely of
considering whether they are materially inconsistent with the
financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the course
of the audit or otherwise appear to be materially misstated,
in line with our responsibilities on “Other information”.
In planning and performing our audit we assessed the
potential impacts of climate change on the Group’s
business and any consequential material impact on its
financial statements.
The Group has explained in the “Sustainability review” section
of the Annual Report how they have reflected the impact of
climate change in their financial statements, including how
this aligns with their commitment to the aspirations of the
Paris Agreement to achieve net zero emissions by 2050.
Significant judgements and estimates relating to climate
change are included in the section “Climate impact on the
Group’s balance sheet” of note 1 to the financial statements.
As stated in these disclosures, the Group has considered
Climate to be an area of significant accounting estimate
and judgement through the uncertainty of future events
and the impact of that uncertainty on the Group’s assets
and liabilities. The Group has concluded that whilst it is not
currently quantitatively material, it considers climate to be
qualitatively material.
Financial statements Independent auditor’s report
Our application of materiality Performance materiality
We apply the concept of materiality in planning and The application of materiality at the individual account
performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified or balance level. It is set at an amount to reduce to an
misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion. appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate
of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds
Materiality materiality.
The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, On the basis of our risk assessment, together with our
individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be evaluation of the Group’s overall control environment, our
expected to influence the economic decisions of the users judgement was that performance materiality was 50%
of the financial statements. Materiality provides a basis for (2022: 50%) of our planning materiality, namely $137m
determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures. (2022: $117m). We have set performance materiality at this
We determined materiality for the Group to be $274 million percentage based on a variety of risk assessment factors
(2022: $234 million), which is 5% (2022: 5%) of adjusted PBT. such as the expectation of misstatements, internal control
This reflects actual PBT adjusted for non-recurring items environment considerations and other factors such as the
relating to restructuring and the impairment of China Bohai global complexity of the Group.
Bank. We believe that adjusted PBT provides us with most Audit work at component locations for the purpose of
appropriate measure for the users of the financial statements, obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement
given the Group is profit making, it is consistent with the wider accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total
industry, it is the standard for listed and regulated entities performance materiality. The performance materiality set
and we believe it reflects the most relevant measure for for each component is based on the relative scale and
users of the financial statements. We also believe that the risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our
adjustments are appropriate as they relate to material assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component.
non-recurring items. In the current year, the range of performance materiality
During our audit, we performed a reassessment of our initial allocated to components was $11.4 million to $26.2 million
materiality. This assessment resulted in higher final materiality (2022: $8.8 million to $34.1 million).
calculated based on the actual financial performance of the
Group for the year. There were no changes to the basis for Reporting threshold
materiality calculation from the planning stage. An amount below which identified misstatements are
considered as being clearly trivial.
Starting basis We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to
them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of $14 million
(2022: $11 million), which is set at 5% of planning materiality,
• Reported profit before tax – $5,093m
as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view,
warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both
the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and
Adjustments
in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming
our opinion.
Other information
• Add China Bohai Bank Impairment – $850m
The other information comprises the information included
• Deduct Other restructuring – $460m
in the Annual Report and Accounts, including: the Strategic
Report, Sustainability Review, Directors’ Report (other than
those sections of the Directors Remuneration Report marked
as audited), Risk Review and Capital Review (other than
those sections marked as audited) and Supplementary
Materiality Information, other than the financial statements and our
auditor’s report thereon. The directors are responsible for
the other information contained within the annual report.
• Totals $5,483m Adjusted PBT
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover
• Materiality of $274m (5% of Adjusted PBT) the other information and, except to the extent otherwise
explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form
of assurance conclusion thereon.
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in
doing so, consider whether the other information is materially
We determined materiality for the Parent Company to be
inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge
$247 million (2022: $210 million), which is 0.5% (2022: 0.4%) of
obtained in the course of the audit, or otherwise appears
the equity of the Parent Company. We believe that equity
to be materially misstated. If we identify such material
provides us with the most appropriate measure for the users
inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are
of the Parent Company’s financial statements, given that the
required to determine whether this gives rise to a material
Parent Company is primarily a holding company.
misstatement in the financial statements themselves. If, based
on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a
material misstatement of the other information, we are
required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
356 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 357
Financial
statements
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the • Director’s statement on whether it has a reasonable
Companies Act 2006 expectation that the Group will be able to continue in
operation and meets its liabilities set out on page 89;
In our opinion, the part of the directors’ remuneration report to
be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with • Directors’ statement on fair, balanced and understandable
the Companies Act 2006. set out on page 217;
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of • Board’s confirmation that it has carried out a robust
the audit: assessment of the emerging and principal risks set out
on page 221;
• the information given in the strategic report and the
directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial • The section of the annual report that describes the review
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial of effectiveness of risk management and internal control
statements; and systems set out on pages 230 to 343; and
• the strategic report and the directors’ report have been • The section describing the work of the audit committee
prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements. set out on pages 162 to 167.
Matters on which we are required to report by Responsibilities of directors
exception
As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group statement set out on page 229, the directors are responsible
and the Parent Company and its environment obtained in for the preparation of the financial statements and for being
the course of the audit, we have not identified material satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such
misstatements in the strategic report or the directors’ report. internal control as the directors determine is necessary to
enable the preparation of financial statements that are free
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to
report to you if, in our opinion: In preparing the financial statements, the directors are
responsible for assessing the Group and Parent Company’s
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the
ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as
Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have
applicable, matters related to going concern and using the
not been received from branches not visited by us; or
going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either
• the Parent Company financial statements and the part of intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to
the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the
• certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by
financial statements
law are not made; or
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about
• we have not received all the information and explanations
whether the financial statements as a whole are free from
we require for our audit.
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error,
and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion.
Corporate Governance Statement
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not
We have reviewed the directors’ statement in relation to a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with
going concern, longer-term viability and that part of the ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when
Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Group it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and
and Company’s compliance with the provisions of the UK are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate,
Corporate Governance Code specified for our review by the they could reasonably be expected to influence the
Listing Rules. economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these
financial statements.
Based on the work undertaken as part of our audit, we
have concluded that each of the following elements of the
Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered
Corporate Governance Statement is materially consistent
capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud
with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained
during the audit: Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance
with laws and regulations. We design procedures in line with
• Directors’ statement with regards to the appropriateness our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect irregularities,
of adopting the going concern basis of accounting and including fraud. The risk of not detecting a material
any material uncertainties identified set out on page 218; misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not
• Directors’ explanation as to its assessment of the detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve
Company’s prospects, the period this assessment covers deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or
and why the period is appropriate set out on pages 88 intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
and 89; The extent to which our procedures are capable of
detecting irregularities, including fraud is detailed below.
Financial statements Independent auditor’s report
However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and • For instances of actual or suspected non-compliance with
detection of fraud rests with both those charged with laws and regulations, which have a material impact on
governance of the Company and management. the financial statements, these were communicated by
management to the Group audit engagement team and
• We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory
component teams (where applicable) who performed audit
frameworks that are applicable to the Group and
procedures such as inquiries with management, sending
determined that the most significant are those that
confirmations to external legal counsel, substantive testing
relate to the reporting framework (UK-adopted IAS and
and meeting with regulators. Where appropriate, we
EU IFRS, the Companies Act 2006 and the UK Corporate
involved specialists from our firm to support the audit team.
Governance Code, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)
Listing Rules, the Main Board Listing Rules of the Hong Kong • The Group is authorised to provide banking, insurance,
Stock Exchange), regulations and supervisory requirements mortgages and home finance, consumer credit, pensions,
of the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA), FRC, FCA and investments and other activities. The Group operates in the
other overseas regulatory requirements, including but not banking industry which is a highly regulated environment.
limited to regulations in its major markets such as Mainland As such, the Senior Statutory Auditor considered the
China, Hong Kong, India, Republic of Korea, Singapore, the experience and expertise of the Group audit engagement
United Arab Emirates, the United State of America, and the team, the component teams and the shared service centre
relevant tax compliance regulations in the jurisdictions in teams to ensure that the team had the appropriate
which the Group operates. In addition, we concluded that competence and capabilities, which included the use
there are certain significant laws and regulations that may of specialists where appropriate.
have an effect on the determination of the amounts and
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit
disclosures in the financial statements and those laws and
of the financial statements is located on the Financial
regulations relating to regulatory capital and liquidity,
Reporting Council’s website at https://www.frc.org.uk/
conduct, financial crime including anti-money laundering,
auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of
sanctions and market abuse recognising the financial and
our auditor’s report.
regulated nature of the Group’s activities.
• We understood how the Group is complying with those Other matters we are required to address
frameworks by performing a combination of inquiries of • Following the recommendation from the Audit Committee,
senior management and those charged with governance we were re-appointed by the Company at the Annual
as required by auditing standards, review of board General Meeting on 3 May 2023 to audit the financial
and certain committee meeting minutes, gaining an statements for the year ending 31 December 2023 and
understanding of the Group’s approach to governance, subsequent financial periods.
inspection of regulatory correspondence in the year and
engaging with internal and external legal counsel. We • The period of total uninterrupted engagement is four
also engaged EY financial crime and forensics specialists years, covering the years ended 31 December 2020 to
to perform procedures on areas relating to anti-money 31 December 2023.
laundering, whistleblowing, and sanctions compliance. • The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report
Through these procedures, we became aware of actual to the Audit Committee.
or suspected non-compliance. The identified actual or
suspected non-compliance was not sufficiently significant
Use of our report
to our audit that it would have resulted in it being identified
This report is made solely to the Company’s members,
as a key audit matter.
as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the
• We assessed the susceptibility of the Group’s financial Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken
statements to material misstatement, including how fraud so that we might state to the Company’s members those
might occur by considering the controls that the Group matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report
has established to address risks identified by the entity, and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by
or that otherwise seek to prevent, deter or detect fraud. law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone
Our procedures to address the risks identified also included other than the Company and the Company’s members as a
incorporation of unpredictability into the nature, timing body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we
and/or extent of our testing, challenging assumptions and have formed.
judgements made by management in their significant
accounting estimates and journal entry testing.
• Based on this understanding, we designed our audit
procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws
and regulations. Our procedures involved inquiries of
the Group’s internal and external legal counsel, money
David Canning-Jones (Senior statutory auditor)
laundering reporting officer, internal audit, certain senior
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor
management executives and focused testing on a sample
basis, including journal entry testing. We also performed London
inspection of key regulatory correspondence from the
23 February 2024
principal regulatory authorities as well as review of board
and committee minutes.
358 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 367
Financial
statements
Notes to the financial statements
1. Accounting policies
Statement of compliance Significant accounting estimates and critical judgements
The Group financial statements consolidate Standard Significant accounting estimates and judgements represent
Chartered PLC (the Company) and its subsidiaries (together those items which have a significant risk of causing a
referred to as the Group) and equity account the Group’s material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets
interests in associates and jointly controlled entities. The and liabilities within the next year. Significant accounting
parent company financial statements present information estimates and judgements are:
about the Company as a separate entity.
• Expected credit loss calculations (Note 8)
The Group financial statements have been prepared in
• Financial instruments measured at fair value (Note 13)
accordance with UK-adopted international accounting
standards and International Financial Reporting Standards • Investments in subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures
(IFRS) as adopted by the European Union (EU IFRS). The and associates – China Bohai associate accounting and
Company financial statements have been prepared in impairment analysis (Note 32)
accordance with UK-adopted international accounting
standards as applied in conformity with section 408 of Other areas of accounting estimate and judgement
the Companies Act 2006. The financial statements have Other areas of accounting estimate and judgement do not
been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the meet the definition under IAS 1 of significant accounting
Companies Act 2006. estimates or critical accounting judgements, but the
recognition of certain material assets and liabilities are
There are no significant differences between UK-adopted
based on assumptions and/or are subject to long-term
international accounting standards and EU IFRS.
uncertainties. The other areas of accounting estimate and
The following parts of the Risk review and Capital review judgement are:
form part of these financial statements:
• Taxation (Note 10)
a) Risk review: Disclosures marked as ‘audited’ from the
• Goodwill impairment (Note 17)
start of the Credit Risk section (page 234) to the end of
Other principal risks in the same section (page 297). • Retirement benefit obligations (Note 30)
b) Capital review: Tables marked as ‘audited’ from the • Share-based payments (Note 31)
start of ‘CRD Capital base’ to the end of ‘Movement in
total capital’, excluding ‘Total risk-weighted assets’ Climate impact on the Group’s balance sheet
(page 339 to 340). Climate, and the impact of climate on the Group’s balance
sheet is considered as an area of significant accounting
Basis of preparation estimate and judgment through the uncertainty of future
The consolidated and Company financial statements have events and the impact of that uncertainty on the Group’s
been prepared on a going concern basis and under the assets and liabilities. It is noted that although not currently
historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation quantitatively material, the Group considers climate to be
of cash-settled share-based payments, fair value through qualitatively material to the Group.
other comprehensive income, and financial assets and
The Group has assessed the impact of climate risk on the
liabilities (including derivatives) at fair value through profit
financial report. This is set out within the Sustainability
or loss.
Review chapter which incorporates the Group’s Climate-
The consolidated financial statements are presented in related Financial Disclosures which align with the
United States dollars ($), being the presentation currency recommendations from the Task Force for Climate related
of the Group and functional currency of the Company, and Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Further risk disclosure has been
all values are rounded to the nearest million dollars, except provided in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties section of
when otherwise indicated. the Annual Report where the Group has described how it
manages climate risk as an Integrated Risk Type.
Significant and other accounting estimates and judgement
In determining the carrying amounts of certain assets and
liabilities, the Group makes assumptions of the effects of
uncertain future events on those assets and liabilities at the
balance sheet date. The Group’s estimates and assumptions
are based on historical experience and expectation of future
events and are reviewed periodically. Further information
about key assumptions concerning the future, and other key
sources of estimation uncertainty and judgement, are set
out in the relevant disclosure notes for the areas set out
under the relevant headings below:
Financial statements Notes to the financial statements
1. Accounting policies continued
The areas of impact where judgements and the use of The Group’s corporate plan has a 5 year outlook and
estimates have been applied were credit risk and the impact considers the high carbon sectors the Group finances.
on lending portfolios; ESG features within issued loans and The majority of the Group high carbon sector targets are
bonds; physical risk on our mortgage lending portfolio; and, production/physical intensities which allow continued levels
the corporate plan, in respect of which forward looking of lending as long as the products the client produce have
cash flows impact the recoverability of certain assets, a decreasing carbon cost. For Coal Mining and Oil and Gas,
including of goodwill, deferred tax assets and investments these sectors have absolute targets which represent a
in subsidiary undertakings. decreasing carbon budget. Coal Mining is an immaterial
book, whilst for Oil and Gas lending is being actively
This assessment on the corporate loan portfolio was
monitored towards lower carbon counterparties and
undertaken by considering the maturity profile of the loan
technologies. The corporate plan is shorter term than many
portfolio which is majority shorter term. Transition risk, as our
of the climate scenario outlooks but seeks to capture the
clients move to lower carbon emitting revenues, (either by
nearer term performance as required by recoverability
virtue of legislation or changing end customer preference) is
models. The Group has for the second time in the 2024
considered with reference to client transition pathways and
corporate plan included anticipated ECL charges linked to
manifests over a longer term than the maturity of the loan
climate for four sectors (Oil and Gas, Metals and Mining,
book (up to 2050). The setting of net zero targets for our high
Power and Transport excluding Aviation) over the 5 years.
carbon sectors, which as of this annual report covers
This addition of ECL has not in itself, impacted the
11 of the 12 high carbon sectors as mandated by the Net Zero
recoverability of assets supported by discounted cash
Banking Alliance, manages transition risk. Net zero targets
flow models (such as Value in Use) which utilise the
enable the portfolio managers to work with our clients on
Corporate plan.
their transition, deploy capital to those clients which are
engaged and have adequate transition pathways, and exit The Group has further progressively strengthened its
clients that refuse to work with the Group on moving from scenario analysis capabilities with the modelling of Climate
a high carbon present to a low carbon future. All of these Risk impact over a 30-year period across multiple dimensions
actions manage the Group’s transition risk and engage including scenario data and pathways. This has been
clients before transition risk manifests itself into credit losses. limited by availability of client-specific data, and modelling
limitations which have required judgements to be made
Physical risk is already included within the majority of our
around scenarios chosen, regression and proxies used.
mortgage lending decisions, and we have applied scenario
Notwithstanding these challenges, our work to date, using
analysis against the pathways of different temperature
certain assumptions and proxies, indicates that our business
additions and country policy scenarios. We also assess
is resilient to all Network of Central Banks and Supervisors
the impact of climate risk on the classification of financial
for Greening the Financial System (NGFS) and bespoke
instruments under IFRS 9, when Environmental, Sustainability
scenarios that were explored.
or Governance (ESG) triggers may affect the cash flows
received by the Group under the contractual terms of The Group, although acknowledging the limitations of
the instrument. current data available, increasing sophistication of models
evolving and nascent nature of climate impacts on internal
The Group Climate Risk team have performed a quantitative
and client assets, considers Climate Risk to have limited
assessment of the impact of climate risk on the IFRS 9 ECL
quantitative impact in the immediate term and as a
provision. This assessment has been performed across
longer-term risk will be addressed through its business
both the CCIB and CPBB portfolios. The Climate risk impact
strategy and financial planning as the Group implements
assessment on IFRS 9 business as usual ECL has been
its net zero journey.
conducted based on newly developed internal climate risk
models for four Corporate sectors (Oil and Gas, Power, Steel
IFRS and Hong Kong accounting requirements
and Mining) and Sovereigns, whilst the top-down approach
As required by the Hong Kong Listing Rules, an explanation
developed in 2022 was used for the remaining portfolios.
of the differences in accounting practices between UK-
The impact assessment resulted in a marginal ECL increase
adopted IFRS and Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards
across CCIB and CPBB, which will not be recorded as an
is required to be disclosed. There would be no significant
overlay for the 2023 year end.
differences had these accounts been prepared in
accordance with Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards.
368 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 397
Financial
statements
13. Financial instruments continued
Interest rate benchmark reform
During 2023, significant progress was made in support of LIBOR transition.
New LIBOR-referencing business had ceased and a full suite of Risk Free Rate-referencing derivative and cash products were
standard offerings across the Group.
Having completed the remediation of all non-USD LIBOR exposures at the end of 2021 with no reliance on synthetic rates,
the Programme focused on remediating legacy USD LIBOR stock ahead of the USD LIBOR cessation date (30 June 2023).
The Group made significant progress towards completing its remediation of legacy exposures over the course of 2023.
Clients with legacy USD LIBOR loans were engaged to remediate their contracts via active conversion to alternative rates,
or other suitable transition mechanisms such as the inclusion of robust fallbacks. For derivatives, the Group adhered to the
International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA) 2020 IBOR Fallbacks Protocol for all its trading entities and continued
to engage clients to do the same or to negotiate remediation bilaterally. The Group also successfully participated in CCP
conversion events, including both tranches of the London Clearing House (LCH) conversions for USD LIBOR and also the
SGD/THB conversion, as well as the CME Eurodollar futures and the Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing (HKEX) USD LIBOR
events. This significantly reduced our overall notional exposure to USD LIBOR, as centrally cleared derivatives and bilateral
derivatives with fallbacks represented a substantial portion of the Group’s overall USD LIBOR notional exposure.
At 31 December 2023, a number of contracts remain subject to remediation but these are considered immaterial for the Group.
The largest population of remaining exposures are syndicated loans, either on a standalone basis, or where the loans have
been hedged with derivatives. These contracts currently operate under a synthetic USD LIBOR rate.
Risks which the Group is exposed to due to LIBOR transition
The Group has largely mitigated all material adverse outcomes associated with the cessation of IBOR benchmarks, and these
have not required a change to the Group’s risk management strategy.
However, the Group will continue to focus on the un-remediated contracts, and manage the risks of the transition until
fully complete.
Particular attention will continue to be paid to: legal risk of any contracts that may remain outstanding after the end of
synthetic LIBOR (currently scheduled for end of September 2024); conduct risk arising from continued remediation; financial
and accounting risk in terms of the financial impact of IBOR transition for the outstanding contracts, and also financial
instruments that may be affected by accounting issues such as accounting for contractual changes due to IBOR reform,
fair value measurement and hedge accounting, as well as other risks inherent in the reform.
As at 31 December 2022 the Group had the following notional principal exposures to interest rate benchmarks that were subject
to interest rate benchmark reform.
IBOR exposures by benchmark
USD LIBOR GBP LIBOR SGD SOR THB FIX Other IBOR Total IBOR
at 31 December 2022 $million $million $million $million $million $million
Assets
Loans and advances to banks 145 – – – – 145
Loans and advances to customers 21,395 – 420 – – 21,815
Debt securities, AT1 and other eligible bills 2,843 – 15 – – 2,858
24,383 – 435 – – 24,818
Liabilities
Deposits by banks 332 – – – – 332
Customer accounts 3,066 – – 34 – 3,100
Repurchase agreements and other
secured borrowing 671 – – – – 671
Debt securities in issue 1,211 – – – – 1,211
Subordinated liabilities and other
borrowed funds – – – – – –
5,280 – – 34 – 5,314
Derivatives – Foreign exchange contracts
Currency swaps and options 135,145 – 2,273 959 – 138,377
Derivatives – Interest rate contracts
Swaps 671,534 – 7,512 10,998 – 690,044
Forward rate agreements and options 22,067 – – 9 – 22,076
Exchange traded futures and options 31,922 – – – – 31,922
Equity and stock index options 49 – – – – 49
Credit derivative contracts 3,974 – 46 129 – 4,149
Total IBOR derivative exposure 864,691 – 9,831 12,095 – 886,617
Total IBOR exposure 894,354 – 10,266 12,129 – 916,749
Loan commitments off-balance sheet 2,798 – 14 – – 2,812
Financial statements Notes to the financial statements
40. Related undertakings of the Group continued
Subsidiary undertakings continued
Proportion
of shares
Name and registered address Activity Place of incorporation Description of shares held (%)
The following company has the address
of 14 Mackinnon Road, Nakasero,
Kampala, 141769, Uganda
Furaha Finserve Uganda Limited Banking & Financial
Services Uganda US$1.00 Ordinary 20
The following company has the address
of EX-26, Ground Floor, Bldg 16-Co Work,
Dubai Internet City, Dubai, United Arab
Emirates
Appro Onboarding Solutions FZ-LLC IT solutions provider and
support service provider. United Arab Emirates AED1,000.00 Ordinary 100
The following company has the address
of Suites 508, 509, 15th Floor, Al Sarab
Tower, Adgm Square, Al Maryah Island,
Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates
Financial Inclusion Technologies Ltd Digital wallet and
technology payments
platform United Arab Emirates US$ Ordinary-A 100
The following company has the address
of Unit GV-00-10-07-OF-02, Level 7, Gate
Village Building 10, Dubai International
Financial Centre, Dubai, United Arab
Emirates
Furaha Holding Ltd Micro-lending Company United Arab Emirates US$1.00 Ordinary 100
The following company has the address
of Standard Chartered Bank, 7th Floor,
Building One, Gate Precinct, DIFC, PO
Box 999, Dubai, United Arab Emirates
Global Digital Asset Holdings Limited Investment vehicle -
Strategic investment United Arab Emirates US$ Ordinary 100
The following company has the address
of Part of Level 15, Standard Chartered
Bank Building, Plot 8, Burj Downtown,
Dubai, United Arab Emirates
myZoi Financial Inclusion Technologies Digital Venture: Activity
LLC auxiliary to financial
intermediation United Arab Emirates AED1.00 Ordinary 100
The following company has the address
of 25 Taylor St, San Francisco CA
94102-3916, United States
Assembly Escrow Inc1 Payment Services Provider United States US$0.0001 Ordinary 100
The following company has the address
of 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE
19808, United States
CurrencyFair (USA) Inc¹ Digital Payment platform United States US$1.00 Uncertificated 100
The following company has the address
of 1095 Avenue of Americas, New York
City NY 10036, United States
Standard Chartered Bank International Banking & Financial
(Americas) Limited Services United States US$1,000.00 Ordinary 100
The following companies have the
address of Corporation Trust Center,
1209 Orange Street, Wilmington DE
19801, United States
Standard Chartered Holdings Inc. Investment Holding
Company United States US$100.00 Common 100
Standard Chartered Securities (North Banking & Financial
America) LLC Services United States Membership Interest 100
480 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Supplementary information
[[Our weather
Supplementary
photographers
information
of the year]]
490 Supplementary financial
information
498 Supplementary people
information
We are showcasing three of the most striking weather
504 Supplementary
sustainability and climate photographs captured by our colleagues,
information as voted for by over 4,000 employees.
508 2023 Sustainability
Aspirations These pictures were originally submitted as part of the
annual Standard Chartered Weather Photographer
511 TCFD summary and
alignment index of the Year competition, organised by the UK’s Royal
517 Shareholder information Meteorological Society.
522 Main awards and accolades
Climate change will hit hardest in many of the
523 Glossary communities and markets where we operate. Its impact
on the environment and human health significantly
affects sustainable economic growth and the future
of society. These pictures aim to draw attention to
the beauty of the planet and the importance of its
conservation. We’re committed to net zero carbon
emissions in our own operations by 2025, and financing
by 2050.
Read more on sc.com/scwpy
Zhangjiajie National Forest Park, China
Photographer: Irene Yuan
488 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Supplementary information Supplementary sustainability information
Supplementary sustainability information
Environmental and Social Risk Management (ESRM)
2023 2022 2021
Number of participants in ESRM training sessions1 2,609² 4,944³ 1,280
Number of transactions reviewed 708 550 547
Number of clients reviewed 1,341 1,170 786
Client exits due to non-compliance with Position Statements 41 14 –
Equator Principles reporting
Project-related
Project finance mandates corporate loans Project-related refinance7 Project advisory mandates
Cat A4 Cat B5 Cat C6 Cat A Cat B Cat C Cat A Cat B Cat C Cat A Cat B Cat C
Total 2021 8 12 3 1 6 – – 1 – – – –
Total 2022 6 7 1 2 3 4 – – – – – –
Total 2023 11 22 3 1 4 1 – – 1 – 1 –
Project finance Project-related Project-related Project advisory
mandates corporate loans refinance mandates
2023 A B C A B C A B C A B C
Sector
Mining – – – – – – – – – – – –
Infrastructure – 6 3 1 – 1 – – 1 – 1 –
Oil and Gas 2 – – – 1 – – – – – – –
Power 9 15 – – 1 – – – – – – –
Others8 – 1 – – 2 – – – – – – –
Region
Americas 1 2 – – – – – – 1 – – –
Asia-Pacific 6 11 1 – 2 – – – – – – –
Europe, Middle East
and Africa 4 9 2 1 2 1 – – – – 1 –
Designation9
Designated Country 3 10 1 – 1 – – – 1 – – –
Non-Designated Country 8 12 2 1 3 1 – – – – 1 –
Independent Review
Yes 10 17 – 1 2 – – – – – 1 –
No 1 5 3 – 2 1 – – 1 – – –
1 Metric was updated in 2023 as all participants are counted for each live training or e-learning session. An employee may attend either or both types of training
during the year.
2 Includes 1,338 participants in live training sessions and 1,271 participants who completed e-learning sessions.
3 Figure in 2022 was higher as the Group’s mandatory Sustainable Finance Foundation training was launched in this year, incorporating ESRM as part of the
curriculum. Frontline colleagues were first required to complete the training in 2022, for other functions the timeline extended into 2023.
4 Cat A or Category A are projects with potential significant adverse environmental and social risks and/or impacts that are diverse, irreversible or unprecedented.
5 Cat B or Category B are projects with potential limited adverse environmental and social risks and/or impacts that are few in number, generally site-specific,
largely reversible and readily addressed through mitigation measures.
6 Cat C or Category C are projects with minimal or no adverse environmental and social risks and/or impacts.
7 In line with Equator Principles (EP4), Standard Chartered now reports those transactions that trigger project-related refinance.
8 Sectors covered under “Others” include Agro-industries, Transport, Chemicals and Manufacturing.
9 Designation is split into Designated and Non-Designated Countries. Designated Countries are deemed by the Equator Principles to have robust environmental
and social governance, legislation systems and institutional capacity designed to protect their people and the natural environment. Non-Designated Countries
are countries that are not found on the list of Designated Countries. The list of countries can be found at www.equator-principles.com.
504 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 505
Supplementary
information
Environment
2023 2022 2021
2022–2023
Units Footnote Measured Scaled up Measured Scaled up Measured Scaled up % change
Reporting coverage of data
Offices reporting No. of offices 762 875 838 (13)
Net internal area of
occupied property m2 864,932 880,515 930,327 946,234 976,520 998,571 (7)
Annual operating income from
1 October to 30 September $million 1 17,414 15,863 14,541 10
Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions 1, 2, 4
Scope 1 emissions tCOe 12 8,454 8,488 2,027 2,071 2,834 2,902 310
2
Scope 2 emissions
(location-based) tCOe 3 84,741 85,741 88,450 89,410 94,564 96,256 (4)
2
Scope 2 emissions
(market-based) tCOe 13 25,469 26,246 41,492 47,363 73,016 82,761 (45)
2
Total Scope 1 and 2 emissions
(market-based) tCOe 33,923 34,734 43,519 49,434 75,850 85,663 (30)
2
Scope 1 and 2 emissions
(UK and offshore area only) tCOe 248 - - 100
2
Scope 3 GHG emissions 1, 2
Category 1: Purchased goods
and services (other) tCOe 5 286,304 380,732 330,244 (25)
2
Category 1: Purchased goods
and services (data centres) tCOe 5 4,431 7,060 43,132 (37)
2
Category 2: Capital goods tCOe 42,707 34,496 47,217 24
2
Category 3: Fuel- and
energy-related activities tCOe 6 nm nm nm nm
2
Category 4: Upstream
transportation and distribution tCOe 24,125 20,300 20,949 19
2
Category 5: Waste generated
in operations tCOe 7, 8 520 747 (30)
2
Category 6: Business travel
(air travel) tCOe 60,279 39,107 3,654 54
2
Category 6: Business travel
(miscellaneous other than
air travel) tCOe 8,918 2,654 4,994 236
2
Category 7: Employee
commuting tCOe 8 71,228 61,917 15
2
Category 8: Upstream
leased assets tCOe 6 nm nm nm nm
2
Category 9: Downstream
transportation and distribution tCOe 6 nm nm nm nm
2
Category 10: Processing of
sold products tCOe 6 nm nm nm nm
2
Category 11: Use of
sold products tCOe 6 nm nm nm nm
2
Category 12: End-of-life
treatment of sold products tCOe 6 nm nm nm nm
2
Category 13: Downstream
leased assets (real estate) tCOe 8, 9 7,898 8,594 (8)
2
Category 14: Franchises tCOe 6 nm nm nm nm
2
Category 15: Investments
(financed emissions) tCOe 10, 14 41,944,000 49,512,000 45,200,000 (15)
2
Total Scope 3 tCOe 42,450,410 50,067,607 45,650,190 (15)
2
Total Scope 1, 2 and 3 tCOe 42,485,144 50,117,041 45,735,853 (15)
2
Supplementary information Supplementary sustainability information
Environment continued
2023 2022 2021
2022–2023
Units Footnote Measured Scaled up Measured Scaled up Measured Scaled up % change
Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions tCOe/
2
(market-based) intensity $ million 2 3 6 (36)
Environmental resource
efficiency
Energy
Indirect non-renewable
energy consumption GWh 139 142 140 142 139 142 –
Indirect renewable
energy consumption GWh 16 16 23 24 27 28 (33)
Direct non-renewable
energy consumption GWh 13 13 10 10 12 12 30
Direct renewable energy
consumption GWh 2 2 1 1 1 1 100
Energy consumption GWh 170 173 174 177 179 183 (2)
Energy consumption intensity kWh/m2 11 196 187 183 5
Energy consumption
(UK and offshore area only) GWh 6 6 5 –
Water
Water consumption Million litres 289 393 265 385 256 384 2
Water intensity m3/m2 11 0.45 0.41 0.38 10
Waste
Waste generated kg 998,407 1,575,954 3,633,870 (37)
Waste intensity kg/m2 11 1.1 1.7 3.6 (32)
Waste reused or recycled % 52 35 32 49
1 The reporting period for carbon emissions is 1 October to 30 September. This only differs for Category 1: Purchased Goods (other); Category 2: Capital Goods;
Category 4: Upstream transportation and distribution; Category 6: Business travel (miscellaneous other than air travel) and Category 15: Investments where
a period of 1 January to 31 December is used. Emissions data for these categories is also on a one-year lag with emissions reported in 2023 based on 2022
emissions data.
2 Scope 1 figure includes fugitive emissions for the first time in 2023. For more information on the methodology and assumptions used to calculate GHG emissions,
please refer to the Environmental Reporting Criteria at sc.com/sustainabilityhub.
3 Location based emissions have been restated for prior comparative periods. Emissions erroneously included renewable energy certificates and power purchase
agreements. Other scope 2 reductions outside clean power are attributed to footprint reduction and efficiency gains.
4 We use an independent third-party assurance provider to verify our Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions. In 2023, limited assurance was completed by Global
Documentation Ltd, excluding fugitive emissions in this first reporting year.
5 Scope 3 Category 1: Purchased goods and services is made up of third-party on-premise data centres (data centres) and all other purchased goods and services
(other). Purchased goods and services (data centres) have been restated from 706tCOe to 7,060tCOe due to an error in converting the unit of emissions.
2 2
6 Scope 3 Category 3, Category 8, Category 9, Category 10, Category 11, Category 12 and Category 14 are not relevant for the Group due to the nature of our
business, products and services and operations. GHG emissions associated with these categories are not deemed as relevant and/or material.
7 Scope 3 Category 5: Waste generated from operations emissions have been restated for the 2022 reporting period due to an out of date emissions factor being
used in prior year.
8 Emissions for Scope 3 Category 5: Waste generated in operations, Category 7: Employee commuting and Category 13: Downstream leased assets were measured
and reported for the first time in 2022.
9 Reporting of emissions associated with downstream leased aircrafts related to the Group’s aircraft leasing business has been paused following the sale of this
business during 2023.
10 Scope 3 Category 15 emissions includes financed emissions associated with the Group’s transactions with clients. 2022 absolute emissions have been restated
from 58.5MtCOe to 49.5MtCOe. This is due to (i) reduction in shipping absolute emissions as improved data has resulted in individual ship-level fair values
2 2
being obtained, (ii) pausing of aviation emissions reporting due to the sale of the Group’s aviation leasing and lending business, (iii) decreases in Automotive
Manufacturers’ emissions due to changes in the industry emissions reporting methodology referenced earlier, (iv) decreases in emissions from the ‘Others’ sector
where improved data has been obtained to calculate emissions and (v) the sectoral baselining of emissions reporting for the Cement and Commercial Real Estate
as separate high-emitting sectors.
11 Energy intensity metric updated to kWh per square meter in the current year from kWh per headcount in 2022. Water intensity metric updated to cubic litres
of water per square meter in the current year from cubic litres of water per headcount in 2022. Waste intensity metric updated to cubic kilograms of waste
per square meter in the current year from cubic metres of waste per headcount in 2022.
12 Scope 1 figure includes fugitive emissions for the first time in 2023 (2023: 5,266 tCO2e). Prior year data was not available for fugitive emissions. For more information
on the methodology and assumptions used to calculate GHG emissions, please refer to the Environmental Reporting Criteria at sc.com/sustainabilityhub.
13 Market based emissions has decreased from 2022 to 2023 due to footprint reduction, efficiency gains and the purchase of additional energy attribution
certificates by the Group.
14 Financed emissions are included on page 110. A facilitated emissions baseline was measured for the first time during the year. Refer to page 112 for more details.
506 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Supplementary information Supplementary sustainability information
2023 Sustainability Aspirations
1. Mobilise Sustainable Finance
Pillar Key performance indicators Period Status 2023 progress update
Sustainable Mobilise $300 billion in Sustainable 2021–2030 Mobilised $87.2bn between January 2021 and
Finance Finance (SF)¹ September 2023. Strong progress in 2023. We
anticipate that mobilisation of SF will not be linear and
will likely increase over time as the market matures and
we help our clients transition. We remain on track for
overall target in 2030.
2. Operationalise interim 2030 financed emissions targets to meet our 2050 net zero ambition
Pillar Key performance indicators Period Status 2023 progress update
Operations Net zero in our operations (Scope 1 and 2 2019–2025 We reduced our Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 30% to
GHG) 34,734 tCOe during 2023. Our measured real estate
2
decreased by 7% during that time.
The Group purchased and retired carbon credits for
our residual operational Scope 1 and 2 emissions.
We remain on track for overall target 2025.
Increase renewable energy sourcing to 2022–2025 66% of our electricity came from renewable sources
100% by 2025 (RE100 compliant) across our portfolio after matching consumption with
Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs).
We remain on track for overall target 2025.
Achieve and maintain flight emissions 2021–2023 Achieved 36% reduction in flight emissions compared
28% lower than our 2019 baseline of to 2019 baseline.
94,000 tCOe
2
Divert 90% of waste from the landfill by 2020–2030 In 2023, we reduced our overall waste generated
2030 by 37% and achieved 52% avoidance of landfill
(up from 31%).
Financed Achieve 2030 interim financed emissions 2020/ During the year, Oil and Gas sector's revenue-based
Emissions reduction in our most carbon-intensive 2021–2030 target was changed to absolute target, effectively
sectors²: placing a carbon budget on the sector.
• -29% in Oil and Gas (absolute) Power and Steel sector targets changed from
• -45–67% in Power (production revenue-based to production-based intensity targets,
intensity) which are considered best in class for these sectors.
• -20–30% in Steel (production We remain on track for all interim 2030 sectoral
intensity) science-based targets; however, transition alignment
• -85% emissions reduction in Thermal is needed for Shipping and Cement.
Coal Mining (absolute) For further information on the progress against each
• Maintain production-intensity in sector-specific 2030 target, refer to pages 109-117.
Aluminium
• Reduce our alignment delta in
Shipping to 0%
• -53–82% in Automotive
Manufacturers (physical intensity)
Set and disclose 2030 financed emission 2021–2024 Targets have been set for Commercial Real Estate,
targets for high-emitting and carbon- Cement, Residential Mortgages and Aluminium and
intensive sectors in line with Net-Zero presented in this Annual Report, refer to pages 109-117.
Banking Alliance (NZBA) guidelines: Target for Agriculture will be developed in 2024.
• 2023: Develop targets for Commercial We remain on track for overall target for 2024.
Real Estate, Cement, Residential
Mortgages, and Aluminium to be
communicated in our 2023 Annual
Report
• 2024: Develop 2030 target for
Agriculture to be communicated in
our 2024 Annual Report
1 Mobilisation of Sustainable Finance is defined as any investment or financial service provided to clients that supports: (i) the preservation and/or improvement of
biodiversity, nature or the environment; (ii) the long-term avoidance/decrease of GHG emissions, including the alignment of a client’s business and operations
with a 1.5 degree Celsius trajectory (known as transition finance); (iii) a social purpose; or (iv) incentivises our clients to meet their own sustainability objectives
(known as sustainability-linked finance).
2 Refer to the Group’s ‘Net zero methodological white paper – The journey continues’ via sc.com/sustainabilityhub and aligned with our Position Statements
available at sc.com/sustainabilityhub. For Aviation, the Group completed the sale of its global aviation finance leasing business and the majority of its aviation
lending book in August 2023. Noting the distortive effects that the sale of this business would create in our emissions profile for this sector, the progress against
this target has been paused for year-end 2023. This will be re-assessed based on the size and materiality of the remaining portfolio in 2024.
508 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 509
Supplementary
information
3. Enhance and deepen leadership within the sustainability ecosystem
Pillar Key performance indicators Period Status 2023 progress update
Market Partnering to lead the fight against Ongoing During 2023, the Group undertook a series of
Integrity, financial crimes: engagements across multiple jurisdictions in
Trust, • Participating in public–private furtherance of this aspiration. The Group continued
Conduct and partnerships to contribute to engagement with international and regional
Compliance understanding most recent standard-setters, such as the Financial Action Task
developments, share intelligence Force and Wolfsberg Group. In many jurisdictions, the
and good practices Group contributed, either directly or via trade bodies,
• Contribute to developing typologies to reform of financial crime legislation and regulation,
and red flags for financial flows and to public–private partnerships to tackle financial
crime. The Group has participated in a number of
financial crime conferences across our footprint -
chairing and leading many panel discussions, and
contributing subject–matter expertise whenever
possible. In addition, the Group has been engaged
in planning discussions with countries and bodies
seeking to establish new partnerships and
information-sharing arrangements.
Develop and deliver a targeted 2022–2024 The Group continued to proactively engage in policy
outreach programme, including through discussions via a number of major international and
key international platforms, aimed at regional platforms and conferences. Through these
safely and transparently reducing activities, the Group sought to promote robust policy
barriers to capital mobilisation for and regulatory frameworks to ensure the credibility
sustainable development and integrity of sustainable investments and to
support capital mobilisation for sustainable finance.
4. Drive social impact with our clients and communities
Pillar Key performance indicators Period Status 2023 progress update
People Increase gender representation to 35% 2016–2025 Women leadership representation at the end of 2023
women in senior roles³ was 32.5%. We remain on track for our overall target
in 2025.
Create Supplier Diversity and Inclusion 2022–2025 100% of in-scope markets have Supplier Diversity and
Plans for all in-scope markets with Inclusion Plans and 40% of our newly onboarded
Supply Chain Management (SCM) suppliers were diverse.
team presence to support 40 per cent
of our newly onboarded suppliers
being diverse⁴
Increase our Culture of Inclusion score 2020–2024 83.23% of employees reported positive sentiments
to 84.5%⁵ around our culture of inclusion. We remain on track
for our overall 2024 target.
Grow our employee MyVoice score to 2022–2024 86% of employees have said the way we operate
the question “The way we operate day to day is aligned with our sustainability strategy.
day-to-day is aligned with our We remain on track for our overall 2024 target.
sustainability strategy” from 2021
baseline of 84% to 88%
3 Senior roles refer to roles thatare at least at the level of Executive Director (Band 4) and Managing Directors (Band 3) as of 31 December of each reporting year.
4 For Standard Chartered diverse suppliers are defined as:
• Small Enterprise (10-49 employees + turnover <USD10 million)
• Micro Enterprise (<10 employees + turnover <USD2 million)
• Medium Enterprise (50-249 employees + turnover <USD50 million)
• Women Owned (51 per cent or more owned by Women (South Africa 30 per cent owned by women as per local government regulations))
• Ethnic Minority (Owned 51 per cent owned by ethnic minorities)
• Veteran Owned (51 per cent or more owned by veterans)
• Disabled Owned (51 per cent or more owned by differently abled people)
• LGBT+ Owned (Owned 51 per cent owned by LGBT+ (not possible in some countries due to local legal regulations))
• Social Enterprises (NGOs and Charities)
5 The ‘Culture of Inclusion’ score is based on several questions in MyVoice employee engagement survey that relate to different concepts of inclusion, including
being respected and valued for contributions, being heard and involved in decisions, career development and opportunities, and work life balance.
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 511
Supplementary
information
TCFD summary and alignment index
The following table sets out the recommendations and recommended disclosures of the Taskforce on Climate–related Financial
Disclosures (TCFD) and summarises where information can be found in this Annual Report.
Recommendation Response Disclosure location
Governance
a) Describe the Board’s oversight of climate–related risks and opportunities
Process and • The Board and its supporting committees are responsible for the oversight of Strategic report –
frequency of climate- and sustaianbiltiy-related risks and opportunities. page 76
communication • The Board Risk Committee (BRC) receives Climate Risk updates in Group Chief Risk Sustainability review
to the Board Officer (GCRO) reports six times a year and reviews the Climate Risk Information – pages 120-123
Report quarterly. Directors’ report –
• The Audit Committee (AC) is responsible for oversight of the Group’s quantitative pages 162-176
reporting metrics and controls over those metrics. The AC is updated annually in the Risk review and Capital
fourth quarter and more frequently if any material disclosures are made outside of review – pages 298-313
the Group’s annual reporting cycle.
• The Culture and Sustainability Committee (CSC) reviews the Group’s overall
sustainability strategy and monitors the implementation of the Group’s public
commitment to net zero financed emissions by 2050. The CSC received updates
three times during 2023.
Incorporation of • The Board reviewed and approved our sustainability strategy including progress Sustainability review
climate–related on our roadmap to achieve net zero financed emissions by 2050, key performance – pages 120-123
issues into Board and indicators and public commitments.
Board committee • The BRC reviewed, discussed, and challenged the Group’s (i) progress on
planning and embedding climate risk in line with PRA SS 3/19; (ii) the results of the Group’s first
decisions bespoke short–term base case and tail risk scenarios; (iii) development of the
Group’s internal modelling capabilities; and (iv) key focus areas for 2024.
Board oversight of • The Board oversees the Group’s overall net zero 2050 ambition and in 2023 reviewed Sustainability review
climate–related progress on delivery against the Group’s net zero roadmap. – pages 120-123
goals and targets • It approved the Group’s Climate Risk Appetite Statement and related Board-level
metrics. Any breaches to the risk appetite metrics are reported to the Group Risk
Committee and the Board Risk Committee.
b) Describe management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related risks and opportunities
Roles and • Each member of the Group Management Team (MT) is responsible for strategically Sustainability review
responsibilities for driving climate considerations within their geography, business segment or function – pages 120-123
climate-related risks in line with our net zero roadmap.
and opportunities • Responsibility for identifying and managing financial risks from climate change sits
with the GCRO as the appropriate Senior Management Function (SMF) under the
Senior Managers Regime (SMR).
• The Global Head, ESG and Reputational Risk is responsible for ensuring and
executing the delivery of the Climate Risk workplan.
• The Chief Sustainability Officer’s (CSO) organisation, as led by the CSO, is
responsible for creating the Group-wide sustainability strategy and working across
business segments and functional teams to deliver on our goals, targets and net
zero roadmap.
• Roles and responsibilities associated with climate-related risks and opportunities
have been set out in the “Climate and sustainability-related governance” section of
this Annual Report.
Processes used to • Management is informed by several committees and forums, with climate- Sustainability review
inform management and sustainability-related information communicated via reports and – pages 120-123
committee papers.
• This includes channels including our Climate Risk Information Reports, and updates
to the Sustainability Executive Committee and CCIB and CPBB management teams.
Supplementary information TCFD summary and alignment index
Recommendation Response Disclosure location
Strategy
a) Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organisation has identified over the short, medium and long term
Relevant short, • In our strategic business planning, we consider “short-term” to be less than two Risk review and Capital
medium and years, “medium-term” to be two to five years and “long-term” to be beyond this. review – pages 298-313
long-term time • For climate scenario analysis, we can run 30-year scenarios for both physical and
horizons transition risk. Some elements of our physical risk scenario analysis can also extend
to 2100.
• In 2023, we significantly strengthened our stress testing and scenario analysis
abilities for a range of short, medium and long-term management scenarios
that are more plausible, including the first bespoke short-term base case and
tail risk scenarios.
Processes used to • We utilise a range of tools and methodologies to assess transition and physical Risk review and Capital
determine material Climate Risk, which we apply to our clients, portfolios and our own operations. review – pages 298-313
risks and These include: scenario analysis, location-based hazard and risk scores and
opportunities temperature alignment scores.
• In addition, we engage with our corporate clients to understand their transition
and physical risks, as well as their plans to prepare for climate change.
• Detailed processes to determine material risks across the impacted risk types are
discussed in more detail within the “Risk review and Capital review” section.
Climate-related risks • The Group is exposed to Climate Risk through our clients, our own operations, our Strategic report –
and opportunities suppliers and from the industries and markets we operate in. The Group defines pages 76-78
identified Climate Risk as the potential for financial loss and non-financial detriments arising Sustainability review
from climate change and society’s response to it. – pages 126-129
• Physical risk may arise from increasing severity and frequency of climate- and Risk review and Capital
weather-related events, which can damage property and other infrastructure, review – pages 298-313
disrupt supply chains, and impact food production. It may also reduce asset Note 1 significant
valuations leading to lower profitability for companies. Indirect effects on the judgement and
macroeconomic environment, such as lower output and productivity may estimates – pages
exacerbate these direct impacts. 367-369
• Transition risk may arise from the adjustment towards a carbon-neutral economy,
which will require significant structural changes to the economy. These changes will
prompt a reassessment of a wide range of asset values, a change in energy prices,
and a fall in income and creditworthiness of some borrowers. In turn, this entails
credit losses for lenders and market losses for investors.
• Our work to scale Sustainable and Transition Finance is an opportunity for the
Group to create resilience against transition risks and help provide capital and
financing for our clients’ transition to a low carbon economy. Through supporting
our clients on their decarbonisation journeys as they adapt their business models
to be less carbon-intensive over time, we help manage their, and our transition risk.
We aim to achieve Sustainable Finance income of $1 billion by 2025, mobilise
$300 billion of Sustainable Finance between 2021 and 2030, and continue to
grow the Sustainable Finance asset and liability books.
Significant • We aim to become net zero in our financed emissions by 2050, and have set interim Sustainability review
concentrations of 2030 targets set for 11 high-emitting sectors in line with Net-Zero Banking Alliance – pages 108-117
credit exposure to (NZBA) Guidance: Aluminium; Automotive Manufacturers, Aviation, Cement; Risk review and Capital
carbon-related Commercial Real Estate, Oil and Gas, Power, Residential Mortgages, Shipping, review – pages
assets Steel and Thermal Coal Mining. The 12th sector, Agriculture, will have a target 298-305
developed in 2024.
• We have disclosed our exposures to high-emitting sectors, which are identified and
grouped as per the International Standard Industrial Classification (ISIC) system
and exposure numbers have been updated to include all in-scope ISIC codes used
for target setting among the high-carbon sectors.
• The full exposure does not provide an indication of how many clients have net zero
pathways in alignment with our own, and hence can be banked as they transition
and/or decarbonise their business models .
512 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 513
Supplementary
information
Recommendation Response Disclosure location
Strategy continued
b) Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organisation’s businesses, strategy and financial planning
Impact of climate- Enterprise Risk Strategic report –
related risks and • We manage Climate Risk according to the characteristics of the impacted risk types pages 70; 76-78
opportunities on and are embedding climate-risk considerations into relevant frameworks and Sustainability review
business areas processes. Details on the risks identified such as sectors vulnerable to climate risks, – pages 105-107;
loan impairment intensities, client-level climate risk grading, exposure concentration 126-129
to physical risk hazards for residential mortgage portfolios and across our own Directors’ report –
operations are discussed in more detail within the “Risk review and Capital review” pages 226-227
section.
Risk review and Capital
Products and services review – pages 298-313
• We have Product Programme Guidance documents which underpin each
Sustainable Finance product that we offer, signed off by a delegate of the
Sustainable Finance Governance Committee (SFGC) following approval of the
product construct by the SFGC. The SFGC is our forum for reviewing Sustainable
Finance products and derives its authority from the Group Reputational and
Responsibility Risk Committee. SFGC is our foremost committee on greenwashing
risk in Sustainable Finance product design and labelling.
• Our Green and Sustainable Product Framework governs all activities we as an
organisation view as green or sustainable. It is publicly available and externally
verified by Morningstar Sustainalytics.
• The Sustainability Bond Framework provides the basis for issuance of Green,
Social and Sustainability bonds, drawing on the activities that we view as green
or sustainable.
• Informed by the IEA NZE Energy 2050 scenario, we outline what assets and
activities qualify for labelling as “transition” in our Transition Finance Framework.
In our own operations
• Since 2018 we have been actively targeting a reduction in our Scope 1 and 2
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. We aim to optimise our office and branch
network by retiring unused or inefficient space and creating a working environment
that matches office and hybrid-working patterns of our workforce.
• We are actively seeking to increase the proportion of our electricity usage that
comes from renewable sources. These can take the form of power purchase
agreements, clean energy contracts, on-site solar installations and renewable
energy certificates.
In our supply chain
• Through our Supplier Charter, we expect our suppliers to support and promote
environmental protection, and to comply with local environmental laws and
regulations. We expect our suppliers to promote the development and distribution
of environmentally friendly technologies and manage environmental concerns in
their own supply chains.
• With 11,563 suppliers, we recognise our contribution to climate impacts through
the goods and services we procure. Severe weather events could result in material
disruptions to our supply chain that may potentially impact our ability to serve our
clients. As such, we work to gather site locations for our material suppliers to assess
their physical risk exposures, such that suitable continuity plans can be developed.
• We continue to engage with our suppliers to collect emissions data, directly from
them, thereby improving the accuracy of our Scope 3 Categories 1, 2, 4 and 6
(miscellaneous other than air travel) emissions calculations and reporting.
Incorporating • In 2023, climate-related risks and opportunities were considered as part of our Strategic report –
climate-related formal annual corporate plan, strategy, and financial planning process, and page 78
inputs into the included if considered material. Sustainability review
financial planning • In addition, we developed management scenarios with an aim to strengthen – page 129
process business strategy and financial planning to support the Group’s net zero roadmap. Risk review and Capital
• From a capital perspective, Climate Risk considerations have been part of our review – pages 298-313
Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) submissions. Note 1 significant
judgement and
estimates – pages
367-369
Supplementary information TCFD summary and alignment index
Recommendation Response Disclosure location
Strategy continued
c) Describe the resilience of the organisation’s strategy, taking into consideration different climate-related scenarios, including a
two degrees Celsius or lower scenario
Approach to scenario • Over recent years, we have progressively strengthened our scenario analysis Risk review and Capital
analysis capabilities and developed our infrastructure and capabilities to incorporate review – pages 309-313
Climate Risk into data, modelling and analysis.
• Our work to date, using current assumptions and proxies, indicates that our business
is resilient to three scenarios from Network of Central Banks and Supervisors for
Greening the Financial System (NGFS) and three in-house bespoke scenarios that
were explored.
Scenarios used • In 2023, we developed bespoke internal modelling capabilities to provide greater Risk review and Capital
transparency of scenarios and models. review – pages 309-313
• We assessed the impact on our CCIB corporate client portfolio based on three
Phase 3 scenarios from the NGFS and three in-house bespoke scenarios.
• We also assessed the impact of sea level rises under various Intergovernmental
Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Representative Concentration Pathways (RCP)
scenarios to explore the physical risk impacts on the Consumer, Private & Business
Banking (CPBB) residential mortgage portfolio over short- and long-term time
horizons for internal risk management purposes.
• The results of scenario analyses have provided further validation to the actions we
are taking as a Group in terms of our net zero ambitions and strategy.
Impact of climate- • We are working with clients in high-emitting and carbon-intensive sectors, aiming Strategic report –
related risks and to support their transition to a low carbon economy, including through the adoption page 70
opportunities on of emission reduction plans and new technological solutions. Sustainability review
business strategy • Our work to scale our Sustainable Finance franchise, along with our targets to (i) – pages 96; 99-101
mobilise $300 billion Sustainable Finance between 2021 and 2030, and (ii) scale
Sustainable Finance income to $1 billion by 2025, supported by our Sustainable
Finance frameworks are elements of a robust response to transition risks in the short
term, strengthening our resilience towards a two degrees Celsius or lower transition
scenario.
Risk Management
a) Describe the organisation’s processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks
Processes for • We manage Climate Risk according to the characteristics of the impacted risk Strategic report –
identifying and types and are embedding climate-risk considerations into relevant frameworks pages 76-78
assessing risk and processes. Sustainability review
• To support the management and monitoring of climate-related physical and – pages 126-129
transition risks, we continue to conduct case level reviews for enhanced due Risk review and Capital
diligence on high ‘Climate Credit Risk’ and ‘Climate and Reputational and review – pages 298-313
Sustainability Risk’ for our corporate clients.
• We continuously monitor the Risk Appetite metrics that aim to measure and
manage financial and non-financial risks arising from climate change.
• To assess climate-related risks and opportunities in the short-, medium- and
long-term, we use scenario analysis to consider how risks and opportunities
may evolve under different situations.
Existing and • Key financial regulators across our footprint have proposed or set supervisory Strategic report –
emerging regulatory expectations on climate and environmental risk management. Those expectations page 78
requirements related are broadly aligned with the Basel Committee principles for the management of
to climate change climate-related financial risks, but local implementations vary.
• We have been actively engaging with industry bodies and regulators to drive
consistency in policymaking across our markets. A process has been established
for tracking various Climate Risk-related regulatory developments and obligations
set by both financial and non-financial service regulators at Group, regional and
country level, with roles and responsibilities set out in the Group’s Climate Risk
Policy. Regulatory requirements or enhancements needed are recorded through
workplans across various teams. The workplans are coordinated and monitored
through various working groups by having the relevant accountable executives
participate in the relevant forums.
Characterising • We have identified seven Principal Risk Types (PRT) that are most materially Strategic report –
climate-related risks impacted by potential climate risks and describe transmission channels for page 78
in the context of Climate Risk manifesting as financial and non-financial risk. Risk review and Capital
traditional banking review – pages
industry risk 298-309
categories
514 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 515
Supplementary
information
Recommendation Response Disclosure location
Risk Management continued
b) Describe the organisation’s processes for managing climate-related risks
Processes for • We manage Climate Risk according to the characteristics of these seven PRTs Strategic report –
managing and and are embedding climate-risk considerations into the relevant frameworks and pages 76-78
mitigating risks processes as well as setting risk appetites. Detailed processes for managing and Sustainability review
mitigating climate risks across the impacted risk types are discussed in more detail – pages 126-129
within the ‘Risk review and Capital review’ section of this Annual Report. Risk review and Capital
• Our Climate Risk Appetite Statement (RAS) is approved annually by the Board review – pages 298-313
and any breaches are reported to the Group Risk Committee and the Board Risk
Committee. We regularly review the scope and coverage of our Risk Appetite
metrics for enhanced risk identification and management. Additional metrics
to address our public targets across key sectors and a stress loss metric built on
scenario outcomes have been identified and are being monitored in 2024.
c) Describe how processes for identifying, assessing and managing climate-related risks are integrated into the organisation’s
overall risk management
Integration into • Climate Risk is recognised in the Group Enterprise Risk Management Framework Strategic report –
Enterprise Risk (ERMF) as manifesting through existing risk types and is managed in line with the pages 76-78
Management impacted risk type frameworks. In 2023, we have continued to build Climate Risk Sustainability review
Framework into existing risk-management processes, focusing on identifying, assessing, and – pages 127-129
monitoring across risk types. Risk review and Capital
review – pages 298-313
Metrics and Targets
a) Disclose the metrics used by the organisation to assess climate-related risk and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk
management process
Key metrics used to • We disclose the following metrics in order to measure and manage climate-related Strategic report –
measure and risks and opportunities: pages 68; 72
manage climate- GHG emissions: Sustainability review
related risks and • Scope 1, Scope 2 and relevant Categories of Scope 3 emissions, in particular – pages 94; 99-101; 105;
opportunities as well Category 15 – Investments (financed emissions). 110-117; 126-129
as metrics used to Climate-related transition risks: Risk review and Capital
assess the impact of • Loan impairment intensities for the corporate portfolio and key sectors across review – pages 298-313
(transition and
a range of scenarios.
physical) climate-
related risks on their • Transition risk exposure concentration for residential mortgages using Energy
lending and other Performance Certificate (EPC).
financial • Client-level Climate Risk Assessment (CRA) scores by region for measuring gross
intermediary transition risk and mitigation plans.
business activities
• Distribution of climate risk grading across key markets.
• Weighted Average Temperature Alignment (WATA) scores by sectors and regions.
• Gross Country Risk exposure distribution .
Climate-related physical risks:
• Exposure concentration of gross flood and sea level rise risk for residential
mortgage portfolio by regions.
• Physical risk vulnerabilities of our own operating locations across a range of acute
and chronic physical risk events.
• Client-level CRA scores by region for measuring gross physical risk and adaptation
measures.
• Gross Country Risk exposure distribution.
Climate-related opportunities:
• Sustainable Finance income.
• Green and Social finance assets.
• Sustainable liabilities.
• Sustainability-Linked assets.
Capital deployment:
• Mobilisation of Sustainable Finance.
Climate-related • Selected sustainability measures aligned with the Group’s Sustainability Aspirations Sustainability review
incentive structures and Sustainability Strategic Pillars continue to be incorporated into the Group – page 124
scorecard which informs variable remuneration for the majority of employees. Risk review and Capital
• Sustainability-related targets continue to be also included in the 2024–2026 review – pages 202-207
Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) performance measures. Members of the Group
Management Team are eligible for LTIP awards, which may also be granted to
other employees in the Group.
Supplementary information TCFD summary and alignment index
Recommendation Response Disclosure location
Metrics and Targets continued
b) Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2 and, if appropriate, Scope 3 GHG emissions and the related risks
In our own operations • We reduced our Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 30% to 34,734 tCOe. Our measured Sustainability review
2
real estate decreased by 7% during this time. This was possible through investments – pages 105-106
into energy-efficiency and utilising 66% of electricity from renewable sources across Supplementary
our portfolio after matching consumption with Renewable Energy Certificates sustainability
(RECs). During the year, we started measuring the fugitive emissions from our information – pages
own operations. 505-506
In our supply chain • We continued to partner with an independent climate consultancy using a hybrid Sustainability review
methodology (supplier-specific data and spend emissions factors) to measure our – page 109
supplier emissions for Scope 3 Categories 1, 2, 4 and 6 (miscellaneous other than air Supplementary
travel). These emissions are reported on a one-year lag. sustainability
• Overall, our emissions associated with the products, services and equipment that information – pages
we purchase and those related to business travel (excluding air travel) – Scope 3 505-506
Categories 1, 2, 4 and 6 (miscellaneous other than air travel) – have shown an
estimated 17% year-on-year reduction to a total of 362,054 tCOe since the previous
2
reporting year, excluding Scope 3 category 1 data centres. We continued to improve
the accuracy of our supply chain emissions data collection by increasing the number
of primary data sources and updating the CEDA emissions factor calculations.
Our 2023 reported emissions are based on 2022 supplier spend.
• Our Scope 3 Category 6 (air travel) emissions totalled 60,279 tCOe. We have seen
2
an increase in emissions associated with air travel since the previous reporting year.
Nonetheless, the Group was able to exceed its target and managed to reduce
these emissions by 36% compared to its 2019 baseline.
Measuring our • Analysing our exposure to high-emitting sectors is the starting point of our financed Strategic report –
financed emissions emission calculations. pages 73-74
• The Group has set targets for 11 of the 12 high-emitting sectors as mandated by the Sustainability review
NZBA with targets for Aluminium, Cement, Commercial Real Estate, and Residential – pages 105; 108-117
Mortgages set during the year.
• The Group has further set a baseline for facilitated emissions in 2023.
c) Describe the targets used by the organisation to manage climate-related risks and opportunities and performance against
targets
Details of targets set • The targets we have set for climate-related risks are primarily our net zero, across Strategic report –
and whether they are Scopes 1, 2 and specifically 3 financed emissions, starting in 2030, with thermal coal pages 68; 70; 72; 74
absolute or intensity targets in the shorter term from 2024. Our progress is set out in the Financed Sustainability review
based emissions section. – pages 94; 99-101; 106;
• On climate-related opportunities, we have $1 billion of Sustainable Finance 107; 110-111
income and $300 billion mobilisation of Sustainable Finance targets for 2025
and 2030 respectively.
• During the year, we revised the measurement of our Oil and Gas sector emissions
from an income-based carbon intensity metric to absolute financed emissions to
better reflect the sector emission profile, effectively creating a carbon budget for
the sector that is intended to decrease over time. In addition to this, our Power
target was revised from an income-based carbon intensity to a production intensity
target. Target methodologies have evolved in the Shipping and Automotive
Manufacturers sectors which has led us to restate some of our existing targets
to better align them with the latest scientific views in those sectors.
• In 2023, we continued to expand the coverage of our financed emissions targets
with four additional targets for Aluminium, Cement, Commercial Real Estate and
Residential Mortgages.
A description of the • The methodologies used to calculate baseline emissions are set out in the updated Sustainability review
methodologies used ‘Net zero methodological white paper – The journey continues’, available at – pages 109-117
to calculate targets sc.com/sustainabilityhub.
and measures
Other key • The Group’s approach to sustainability is underpinned by our Sustainability Sustainability review
performance Aspirations. During 2023, we refreshed and consolidated our Sustainability – pages 94-98
indicators used Aspirations into four overarching long-term goals, each supported by key 2023 Sustainability
performance indicators. Aspirations – pages
508-510
516 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 519
Supplementary
information
Important notices Financial instruments
Nothing in this document shall constitute, in any jurisdiction,
Forward-looking statements
an offer or solicitation to sell or purchase any securities
The information included in this document may contain
or other financial instruments, nor shall it constitute a
‘forward-looking statements’ based upon current
recommendation or advice in respect of any securities
expectations or beliefs as well as statements formulated
or other financial instruments or any other matter.
with assumptions about future events. Forward-looking
statements include, without limitation, projections, estimates, Basis of Preparation and Caution Regarding
commitments, plans, approaches, ambitions and targets
Data Limitations
(including, without limitation, ESG commitments, ambitions
This section is specifically relevant to, amongst others,
and targets). Forward-looking statements often use words
the sustainability and climate models, calculations and
such as ‘may’, ‘could’, ‘will’, ‘expect’, ‘intend’, ‘estimate’,
disclosures throughout this report.
‘anticipate’, ‘believe’, ‘plan’, ‘seek’, ‘aim’, ‘continue’ or other
words of similar meaning to any of the foregoing. Forward- The information contained in this document has been
looking statements may also (or additionally) be identified prepared on the following basis:
by the fact that they do not relate only to historical or
i. disclosures in the Strategic report, Sustainability review,
current facts.
Directors’ report, Risk review and Capital review and
By their very nature, forward-looking statements are subject Supplementary information are unaudited unless
to known and unknown risks and uncertainties and other otherwise stated;
factors that could cause actual results, and the Group’s plans
ii. all information, positions and statements set out in this
and objectives, to differ materially from those expressed or
document are subject to change without notice;
implied in the forward-looking statements. Readers should
not place reliance on, and are cautioned about relying on, iii. the information included in this document does not
any forward-looking statements. constitute any investment, accounting, legal, regulatory
or tax advice or an invitation or recommendation to enter
There are several factors which could cause the Group’s actual
into any transaction;
results and its plans and objectives to differ materially from
those expressed or implied in forward-looking statements. iv. the information included in this document may have been
The factors include (but are not limited to): changes in global, prepared using models, methodologies and data which
political, economic, business, competitive and market forces or are subject to certain limitations. These limitations include:
conditions, or in future exchange and interest rates; changes the limited availability of reliable data, data gaps, and the
in environmental, geopolitical, social or physical risks; legal, nascent nature of the methodologies and technologies
regulatory and policy developments, including regulatory underpinning this data; the limited standardisation of
measures addressing climate change and broader data (given, amongst other things, limited international
sustainability-related issues; the development of standards coordination on data and methodology standards);
and interpretations, including evolving requirements and and future uncertainty (due, amongst other things,
practices in ESG reporting; the ability of the Group, together to changing projections relating to technological
with governments and other stakeholders to measure, development and global and regional laws, regulations
manage, and mitigate the impacts of climate change and and policies, and the current inability to make use of
broader sustainability-related issues effectively; risks arising strong historical data);
out of health crises and pandemics; risks of cyber-attacks,
v. models, external data and methodologies used in
data, information or security breaches or technology failures
information included in this document are or could be
involving the Group; changes in tax rates or policy; future
subject to adjustment which is beyond our control;
business combinations or dispositions; and other factors
specific to the Group, including those identified in this Annual vi. any opinions and estimates should be regarded as
Report and financial statements of the Group. To the extent indicative, preliminary and for illustrative purposes only.
that any forward-looking statements contained in this Expected and actual outcomes may differ from those set
document are based on past or current trends and/or out in this document (as explained in the “Forward-looking
activities of the Group, they should not be taken as a statements” section above);
representation that such trends or activities will continue
vii. some of the related information appearing in this
in the future.
document may have been obtained from public and other
No statement in this document is intended to be, nor should sources and, while the Group believes such information to
be interpreted as, a profit forecast or to imply that the be reliable, it has not been independently verified by the
earnings of the Group for the current year or future years Group and no representation or warranty is made by the
will necessarily match or exceed the historical or published Group as to its quality, completeness, accuracy, fitness
earnings of the Group. Each forward-looking statement for a particular purpose or noninfringement of such
speaks only as of the date that it is made. Except as required information;
by any applicable laws or regulations, the Group expressly
viii. for the purposes of the information included in this
disclaims any obligation to revise or update any forward-
document, a number of key judgements and assumptions
looking statement contained within this document, regardless
have been made. It is possible that the assumptions
of whether those statements are affected as a result of new
drawn, and the judgement exercised may subsequently
information, future events or otherwise.
turn out to be inaccurate. The judgements and data
Please refer to this Annual Report and the financial presented in this document are not a substitute for
statements of the Group for a discussion of certain of the judgements and analysis made independently by
risks and factors that could adversely impact the Group’s the reader;
actual results, and cause its plans and objectives, to differ
materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-
looking statements.
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 521
Supplementary
information
Main awards and accolades in 2023
Asian Banker Euromoney Global The Asset Triple A
• Best Frictionless Customer Experience Private Banking Awards
Initiative Award, China Awards • Best RMB Bank
• Best Domestic Private Bank, Across East Africa,
Asian Banking and Finance Retail United Kingdom Kenya
Banking Awards
• Best for ESG Investing, Korea & • Best Service Providers for Trade
• International Retail Bank of the Year,
United Kingdom Finance, Sri Lanka
Singapore
• Investment Innovation Product of the European Chamber of Commerce The Asset Triple A Digital Awards
Year, Taiwan • Best ESG Communications, Singapore • Digital Bank of the Year, Bangladesh
• Wealth Management Platform of the
Forbes The Asset Triple A Islamic Finance
Year, Brunei
• Ranked 1st in the Awards
• International Retail Bank of the Year, World’s Best Banks • Best Investment Bank, United
Hong Kong 2023 list, China Arab Emirates
• Best Retail Bank, United
Asiamoney Fortune India – Grant Thornton Bharat
Arab Emirates
• Best International Study on India’s Best Banks 2023
Bank, Bangladesh • Best Foreign Bank, India • Best Retail Bank, Standard Chartered
Saadiq Bangladesh
• Best Bank for Digital
Global Finance Magazine
Solutions, Hong Kong • Sukuk Adviser of the Year,
• Best Bank in Sustainable Finance, Saudi Arabia
• Best Bank for Corporate Social Saudi Arabia
Responsibility, Hong Kong • Islamic Bank of the Year, Middle East
• Global Outstanding Leadership in
Bloomberg Businessweek Awards Sustainable Finance, Global • Islamic Bank of the Year, Standard
Chartered Saadiq Bangladesh
• Excellence Award for ‘Bank of the
Year’, Hong Kong International Business Magazine • Best Supply Chain Bank, Middle East
Awards
• Excellence Award for ‘Retail Bank of • Best Corporate and Social The Asset Triple A Sustainable
the Year’, Hong Kong Responsibility Bank, Bangladesh Investing Awards
• Excellence Award for ‘ESG • Most Innovative Digital Bank, • Best Domestic Custodian, Indonesia
Sustainability of the Year’, Hong Kong Bangladesh
The Asset Triple A Treasurise Awards
Digital Banker CX Awards International Finance Awards • Best RMB Bank, Indonesia
• Best Retail Bank for Digital CX • Most Innovative Wealth • Best ESG Solution for Liquidity and
(Highly Acclaimed), Hong Kong Management Bank, Ghana Investments, Malaysia, Taiwan &
• Best Hybrid CX (Highly Acclaimed), the Philippines
Hong Kong MEA Finance Awards
• Best Payments and Collections
• Best Global Bank, Middle East
• Best Retail Bank for Digital CX, Solution, Malaysia, Taiwan &
Pakistan • Best Cash Management Bank, the Philippines
United Arab Emirates
• Best Trade and Working Capital
Digital Banker Global Retail Banking
Finance Bank in South Asia, India –
Innovation Awards The Digital Banker
fifth consecutive year
• Best Digital Bank, Hong Kong • Outstanding Digital Client Experience,
China • Best Transaction Bank, Hong Kong
ESG Business Awards
• Best Mobile Banking Project, China • Best Cash Management Bank,
• Renewable Energy Adoption Award, Hong Kong
Bangladesh
• Best E-Solutions Partner Bank,
Hong Kong
Supplementary information Awards
Wallstreetcn LGBT+ Inclusion Index - Presented by
• Excellent Foreign Bank of the Year, Community Business
China • Ranked 4th for the Top Employers,
Hong Kong
WealthBriefing Europe Awards
• Ranked 2nd for Top Organisations in
• Best UK International Clients Team
Financial Services, Hong Kong
(Private Bank), United Kingdom
• Best UK Client Service (Private Bank), LinkedIn Top Companies List
United Kingdom • Ranked 2nd, Singapore
Women in Marketing Communications LinkedIn’s Top 25 Workplaces to
Conference Awards Grow Your Career List
• Award for the Most Committed • Ranked 8th, Kenya
Brand Supporting Women-Owned
Tech Businesses, Nigeria Newsweek
• Listed in the Top 100 Most Loved
Diversity & Inclusion and Workplaces, United States
Employer awards
Points of Light
Asiamoney • The Civic 50: Most Community-
• Best Bank for Diversity and Inclusion, Minded Company Honoree,
Hong Kong, Taiwan, the Philippines United States
and Malaysia
Priority for the Disabled
Asian Banking and Finance Retail • Won the Top Award, Korea
Banking Awards
• Employer of the Year (Regional Gold), Seramount
Hong Kong • Best Company for Multicultural
Women, United States
British Chamber of Commerce
• Diversity and Inclusion Champion The Straits Times
of the Year, Singapore & United • Named as one of the Best Employers,
Kingdom Singapore
Equileap Top Employers Institute China
• Ranked 15th for Gender Equality, • Named Top Employer, China
Globally
Financial Times
• Ranked 3rd for Gender Equality,
• Listed in the
United Kingdom
Financial Times
European Diversity Leaders for
Great Place to Work Accreditation
Workplace Inclusion, Europe –
• Certified, Poland
4th consecutive year
• Certified, United Kingdom
• Certified, United States
• Certified, India
• Certified, Sri Lanka
India Workplace Equality Index
• Gold Employer of the Year, India
522 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 523
Supplementary
information
Glossary
Absolute financed emissions Basel II Capital-lite income
GHG emissions attributed to the Group’s The capital adequacy framework issued Income derived from products with low
lending activities expressed in COe and by the Basel Committee on Banking RWA consumption or products which
2
reported in the Group’s emissions table Supervision (BCBS) in June 2006 in the are non-funding in nature.
under Scope 3, Category 15. form of the International Convergence
of Capital Measurement and Capital Capital resources
AT1 or Additional Tier 1 capital Standards. Sum of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital after
Additional Tier 1 capital consists of regulatory adjustments.
instruments other than Common Basel III
Equity Tier 1 that meet the conditions The global regulatory standards on CGU or Cash-generating unit
set out in Article 52(1) of the Capital bank capital adequacy and liquidity, The smallest identifiable group of assets
Requirements Regulation (as it forms originally issued in December 2010 and that generates cash inflows that are
part of UK domestic law), as well as the updated in June 2011. In December 2017, largely independent of the cash inflows
share premium accounts related to the BCBS published a document setting from other assets or groups of assets.
those instruments. out the finalisation of the Basel III
framework. The latest requirements Cash shortfall
Additional value adjustment issued in December 2017 have been The difference between the cash flows
See Prudent valuation adjustment. implemented from 2022. that are due in accordance with the
contractual terms of the instrument and
Advanced Internal Rating BCBS or Basel Committee on the cash flows that the Group expects
Based (AIRB) approach Banking Supervision to receive over the contractual life of
The AIRB approach under the Basel A forum on banking supervisory matters the instrument.
framework is used to calculate credit which develops global supervisory
risk capital based on the Group’s own standards for the banking industry. Clawback
estimates of prudential parameters. Its members are officials from 45 central An amount an individual is required to
banks or prudential supervisors from pay back to the Group, which has to
Alignment delta 27 countries and territories. be returned to the Group under certain
Alignment delta is a variant on the circumstances.
Basic earnings per share (EPS)
physical emissions intensity approach.
It measures the coefficient of alignment Represents earnings divided by the Commercial real estate
against a particular reference scenario basic weighted average number Includes office buildings, industrial
expressed in percentage terms i.e., how of shares. property, medical centres, hotels, malls,
much a particular portfolio is above or retail stores, shopping centres, farm
below the net zero reference scenario. Basis point (bps) land, multi-family housing buildings,
One hundredth of a per cent (0.01 warehouses, garages, and industrial
Alternative performance per cent); 100 basis points is 1 per cent. properties. Commercial real estate
measures loans are those backed by a package
A financial measure of historical or CRD or Capital Requirements of commercial real estate assets.
future financial performance, financial Directive
CET1 or Common Equity Tier 1
position, or cash flows, other than a An EU capital adequacy legislative
financial measure defined or specified package largely implemented or capital
in the applicable financial reporting onshored into UK law. The package Common Equity Tier 1 capital consists
framework. comprises the Capital Requirements of the items, including the common
Directive and the Capital Requirements shares issued by the Group and related
ASEAN Regulation (CRR) and implements the share premium, retained earnings,
Association of South East Asian Basel III framework together with accumulated other comprehensive
Nations (ASEAN) which includes transitional arrangements for some of income and other disclosed reserves,
the Group’s operations in Brunei, its requirements. CRD IV came into force eligible non-controlling interests and
Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, on 1 January 2014. The EU CRR II and regulatory adjustments required in the
Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam. CRD V amending the existing package calculation of Common Equity Tier 1,
came into force in June 2019 with most set out in Article 26(1) of the Capital
AUM or Assets under changes starting to apply from 28 June Requirements Regulation (as it forms
management 2021. Only those parts of the EU CRR II part of UK domestic law), capable of
that applied on or before 31 December being available to the institution for
Total market value of assets such as
2020, when the UK was a member of unrestricted and immediate use to
deposits, securities and funds held by
the EU, have been implemented. absorb losses as soon as these occur.
the Group on behalf of the clients.
The PRA has recently implemented
the UK’s version of CRR II.
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 525
Supplementary
information
Delinquency Encumbered assets ECAI or External Credit
A debt or other financial obligation is On-balance sheet assets pledged or Assessment Institution
considered to be in a state of used as collateral in respect of certain External credit ratings are used to assign
delinquency when payments are of the Group’s liabilities. risk-weights under the standardised
overdue. Loans and advances are approach for sovereigns, corporates
considered to be delinquent when EU or European Union and institutions. The external ratings
consecutive payments are missed. The European Union (EU) is a political are from credit rating agencies that
Also known as arrears. and economic union of 27 member are registered or certified in accordance
states that are located primarily with the credit rating agencies
Deposits by banks in Europe. regulation or from a central bank
Deposits by banks comprise amounts issuing credit ratings which is exempt
owed to other domestic or foreign Eurozone from the application of this regulation.
credit institutions by the Group Represents the 19 EU countries that
including securities sold under repo. have adopted the euro as their ESG
common currency. Environmental, Social and Governance.
Diluted earnings per share (EPS)
Represents earnings divided by the ECL or Expected credit loss FCA or Financial Conduct
weighted average number of shares Represents the present value of Authority
that would have been outstanding expected cash shortfalls over the The Financial Conduct Authority
assuming the conversion of all dilutive residual term of a financial asset, regulates the conduct of financial
potential ordinary shares. undrawn commitment or financial firms and, for certain firms, prudential
guarantee. standards in the UK. It has a strategic
Dividend per share
objective to ensure that the relevant
Represents the entitlement of each Expected loss markets function well.
shareholder in the share of the profits The Group measure of anticipated
of the Company. Calculated in the loss for exposures captured under Forbearance
lowest unit of currency in which the an internal ratings-based credit risk Forbearance takes place when a
shares are quoted. approach for capital adequacy concession is made to the contractual
calculations. It is measured as the terms of a loan in response to an
Early alert, purely and non- Group-modelled view of anticipated obligor’s financial difficulties. The Group
purely precautionary loss based on probability of default, classifies such modified loans as either
A borrower’s account which exhibits loss given default and exposure at ‘Forborne – not impaired loans’ or ‘Loans
risks or potential weaknesses of a default, with a one-year time horizon. subject to forbearance – impaired’.
material nature requiring closer Once a loan is categorised as either of
monitoring, supervision, or attention by Exposures these, it will remain in one of these two
management. Weaknesses in such a Credit exposures represent the amount categories until the loan matures or
borrower’s account, if left uncorrected, lent to a customer, together with any satisfies the ‘curing’ conditions described
could result in deterioration of undrawn commitments. in Note 8 to the financial statements.
repayment prospects and the likelihood
of being downgraded to credit grade 12 EAD or Exposure at default Forborne – not impaired loans
or worse. When an account is on early The estimation of the extent to which Loans where the contractual terms
alert, it is classified as either purely the Group may be exposed to a have been modified due to financial
precautionary or non-purely customer or counterparty in the event of, difficulties of the borrower, but the
precautionary. A purely precautionary and at the time of, that counterparty’s loan is not considered to be impaired.
account is one that exhibits early alert default. At default, the customer may See ‘Forbearance’.
characteristics, but these do not present not have drawn the loan fully or may
any imminent credit concern. If the already have repaid some of the Funded/unfunded exposures
symptoms present an imminent principal, so that exposure is typically Exposures where the notional amount
credit concern, an account will be less than the approved loan limit. of the transaction is funded or
considered for classification as unfunded. Represents exposures where
non-purely precautionary. a commitment to provide future funding
is made but funds have been released/
Effective tax rate
not released.
The tax on profit/ (losses) on
ordinary activities as a percentage
of profit/(loss) on ordinary activities
before taxation.
Supplementary information Glossary
FVA or Funding valuation Hong Kong regional hub IFRIC
adjustments Standard Chartered Bank (Hong Kong) The IFRS Interpretations Committee
FVA reflects an adjustment to fair value Limited and its subsidiaries including the supports the IASB in providing
in respect of derivative contracts that primary operating entities in China, authoritative guidance on the
reflects the funding costs that the Korea and Taiwan. Standard Chartered accounting treatment of issues not
market participant would incorporate PLC is the ultimate parent company specifically dealt with by existing IFRSs
when determining an exit price. of Standard Chartered Bank (Hong and IASs.
Kong) Limited.
G-SIBs or Global Systemically Investment grade
Important Banks Interest rate risk A debt security, treasury bill or similar
Global banking financial institutions The risk of an adverse impact on the instrument with a credit rating
whose size, complexity and systemic Group’s income statement due to measured by external agencies of
interconnectedness mean that their changes in interest rates. AAA to BBB.
distress or failure would cause significant
IRB or internal ratings-based Leverage ratio
disruption to the wider financial system
and economic activity. The list of approach A ratio introduced under CRD IV
G-SIBs is assessed under a framework Risk-weighting methodology in that compares Tier 1 capital to total
established by the FSB and the BCBS. accordance with the Basel Capital exposures, including certain exposures
In the UK, the G-SIB framework is Accord where capital requirements held off-balance sheet as adjusted by
implemented via the CRD and G-SIBs are based on a firm’s own estimates stipulated credit conversion factors.
are referred to as Global Systemically of prudential parameters. Intended to be a simple, non-risk-based
Important Institutions (G-SIIs). backstop measure.
Internal model approach
G-SII buffer Liquidation portfolio
The approach used to calculate market
A CET1 capital buffer which results from risk capital and RWA with an internal A portfolio of assets which is beyond our
designation as a G-SII. The G-SII buffer market risk model approved by the PRA current risk appetite metrics and is held
is between 1 per cent and 3.5 per cent, under the terms of CRD/CRR. for liquidation.
depending on the allocation to one
of five buckets based on the annual IAS or International LCR or Liquidity coverage ratio
scoring. In the UK, the G-SII buffer is Accounting Standard The ratio of the stock of high-quality
implemented via the CRD as Global A standard that forms part of the liquid assets to expected net cash
Systemically Important Institutions International Financial Reporting outflows under stressed conditions over
(G-SII) buffer requirement. Standards framework. the following 30 days. High-quality
liquid assets should be unencumbered,
Green and Sustainable Product IASB or International liquid in markets during a time of stress
Framework Accounting Standards Board and, ideally, be central bank eligible.
Sets out the eligible themes and An independent standard-setting body
activities that may be considered as responsible for the development and Loan exposure
‘green’, ‘social’ and ‘sustainable’ at publication of IFRS, and approving Loans and advances to customers
Standard Chartered. The Framework interpretations of IFRS standards reported on the balance sheet held
has been developed with support from that are recommended by the IFRS at amortised cost or FVOCI, non-
Morningstar Sustainalytics and is Interpretations Committee (IFRIC). cancellable credit commitments and
updated on an annual basis in cancellable credit commitments for
collaboration with them. It is informed IFRS or International Financial credit cards and overdraft facilities.
by industry principles and supervisory Reporting Standards
standards such as the ICMA Green Loans and advances
A set of international accounting
Bond Principles and the EU Taxonomy to customers
standards developed and issued by the
for sustainable activities. International Accounting Standards This represents lending made under
Board, consisting of principles-based bilateral agreements with customers
guidance contained within IFRSs and entered into in the normal course of
IASs. All companies that have issued business and is based on the legal form
publicly traded securities in the EU are of the instrument.
required to prepare annual and interim
reports under IFRS and IAS standards
that have been endorsed by the EU.
526 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 527
Supplementary
information
Loans and advances to banks Master netting agreement NII or Net interest income
Amounts loaned to credit institutions An agreement between two The difference between interest
including securities bought under counterparties that have multiple received on assets and interest paid
Reverse repo. derivative contracts with each other on liabilities.
that provides for the net settlement of
LTV or loan-to-value ratio all contracts through a single payment, NSFR or Net stable funding ratio
A calculation which expresses the in a single currency, in the event of The ratio of available stable funding to
amount of a first mortgage lien as a default on, or termination of, any required stable funding over a one-year
percentage of the total appraised one contract. time horizon, assuming a stressed
value of real property. The loan-to- scenario. It is a longer-term liquidity
value ratio is used in determining the Mezzanine capital measure designed to restrain the
appropriate level of risk for the loan Financing that combines debt and amount of wholesale borrowing and
and therefore the correct price of the equity characteristics. For example, encourage stable funding over a
loan to the borrower. a loan that also confers some profit one-year time horizon.
participation to the lender.
Loans past due NPLs or non-performing loans
Loans on which payments have been MREL or minimum An NPL is any loan that is more than
due for up to a maximum of 90 days requirement for own funds 90 days past due or is otherwise
including those on which partial and eligible liabilities individually impaired. This excludes
payments are being made. A requirement set by resolution Retail loans renegotiated at or after
authorities to set a minimum 90 days past due, but on which there
Loans subject to forbearance – requirement for own funds and eligible has been no default in interest or
impaired liabilities for banks, implementing the principal payments for more than
Loans where the terms have been FSB’s Total Loss Absorbing Capacity 180 days since renegotiation, and
renegotiated on terms not consistent (TLAC) standard. MREL is intended to against which no loss of principal
with current market levels due to ensure that there is a minimum amount is expected.
financial difficulties of the borrower. of equity and subordinated debt to
Non-linearity
Loans in this category are necessarily support an effective resolution.
impaired. See ‘Forbearance’. Non-linearity of expected credit loss
Net asset value (NAV) per share occurs when the average of expected
Loss rate Ratio of net assets (total assets less credit loss for a portfolio is higher than
Uses an adjusted gross charge-off rate, total liabilities) to the number of the base case (median) due to the fact
developed using monthly write-off and ordinary shares outstanding at the that bad economic environment could
recoveries over the preceding 12 months end of a reporting period. have a larger impact on ECL calculation
and total outstanding balances. than good economic environment.
Net exposure
LGD or Loss given default The aggregate of loans and advances Normalised items
The percentage of an exposure that a to customers/loans and advances to See ‘Underlying/Normalised’ on
lender expects to lose in the event of banks after impairment provisions, page 87.
obligor default. restricted balances with central banks,
Operating expenses
derivatives (net of master netting
Low returning clients agreements), investment debt and Staff and premises costs, general and
See ‘Perennial sub-optimal clients’. equity securities, and letters of credit administrative expenses, depreciation
and guarantees. and amortisation. Underlying
Malus operating expenses exclude expenses
Net zero roadmap as described in ‘Underlying earnings’.
An arrangement that permits the
Group to prevent vesting of all or part of The commitment to reaching net zero A reconciliation between underlying
the amount of an unvested variable carbon emissions in our operations by and reported earnings is contained in
remuneration award, due to a specific 2025 and in our financed emissions Note 2 to the financial statements.
crystallised risk, behaviour, conduct or by 2050.
adverse performance outcome.
Supplementary information Glossary
Operating income or Priority Banking PRA or Prudential Regulation
operating profit Priority Banking customers are Authority
Net interest, net fee and net trading individuals who have met certain The Prudential Regulation Authority is
income, as well as other operating criteria for deposits, AUM, mortgage the statutory body responsible for the
income. Underlying operating income loans or monthly payroll. Criteria varies prudential supervision of banks, building
represents the income line items by country. societies, credit unions, insurers and a
above, on an underlying basis. small number of significant investment
See ‘Underlying earnings’. Private equity investments firms in the UK. The PRA is a part of the
Equity securities in operating companies Bank of England.
OTC or Over-the-counter generally not quoted on a public
derivatives exchange. Investment in private equity Regulatory consolidation
A bilateral transaction (e.g. derivatives) often involves the investment of capital The regulatory consolidation of
that is not exchange traded and that is in private companies. Capital for private Standard Chartered PLC differs from
valued using valuation models. equity investment is raised by retail or the statutory consolidation in that it
institutional investors and used to includes Ascenta IV, Olea Global group,
OCA or Own credit adjustment fund investment strategies such as Seychelles International Mercantile
An adjustment to the Group’s issued leveraged buyouts, venture capital, Banking Corporation Limited., and all
debt designated at fair value through growth capital, distressed investments of the legal entities in the Currency
profit or loss that reflects the possibility and mezzanine capital. Fair group on a proportionate
that the Group may default and not pay consolidation basis. These entities are
the full market value of the contracts. PD or Probability of default considered associates for statutory
PD is an internal estimate for each accounting purposes.
Perennial sub-optimal clients borrower grade of the likelihood that
The regulatory consolidation further
an obligor will default on an obligation
Clients that have returned below 3% excludes the following entities,
over a given time horizon.
return on risk-weighted assets for the which are consolidated for statutory
last three years accounting purposes; Audax Financial
Physical/production emission
Technology Pte. Ltd, Cardspal Pte. Ltd.
Physical risks intensity Letsbloom Pte. Ltd, SCV Research
The risk of increased extreme weather GHG emissions per a specific physical or and Development Pte. Ltd., Standard
events including flood, drought and production unit, for example: tCO 2 e/ Chartered Assurance Limited, Standard
sea level rise. tonne steel, kgCO 2 e/square metre. Chartered Isle of Man Limited,
Corrasi Covered Bonds LLP, Pegasus
Pillar 1 Probability weighted Dealmaking Pte. Ltd., Solv Sdn. Bhd.,
The first pillar of the three pillars of the Obtained by considering the values the Standard Chartered Botswana
Basel framework which provides the metric can assume, weighted by the Education Trust, Standard Chartered
approach to calculation of the minimum probability of each value occurring. Bancassurance Intermediary Limited,
capital requirements for credit, market Standard Chartered Bank Insurance
and operational risk. Minimum capital Profit (loss) attributable to Agency (Proprietary) Limited, Standard
requirements are 8 per cent of the ordinary shareholders Chartered Research and Technology
Group’s risk-weighted assets. Profit (loss) for the year after non- India Private Limited, Standard
controlling interests and dividends Chartered Trading (Shanghai) Limited,
Pillar 2 declared in respect of preference Tawi Fresh Kenya Limited.
The second pillar of the three pillars of shares classified as equity.
Repo/reverse repo
the Basel framework which requires
banks to undertake a comprehensive PVA or Prudent valuation A repurchase agreement or repo is a
assessment of their risks and to adjustment short-term funding agreement, which
determine the appropriate amounts An adjustment to CET1 capital to reflect allows a borrower to sell a financial
of capital to be held against these the difference between fair value and asset, such as asset-backed securities
risks where other suitable mitigants prudent value positions, where the or government bonds as collateral for
are not available. application of prudence results in a cash. As part of the agreement the
lower absolute carrying value than borrower agrees to repurchase the
Pillar 3 recognised in the financial statements. security at some later date, usually less
The third pillar of the three pillars of than 30 days, repaying the proceeds of
the Basel framework which aims to the loan. For the party on the other end
provide a consistent and comprehensive of the transaction (buying the security
disclosure framework that enhances and agreeing to sell in the future), it is
comparability between banks and a reverse repurchase agreement or
further promotes improvements in reverse repo.
risk practices.
528 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023 529
Supplementary
information
Reported performance/results Scope 1 emissions Senior debt
Reported performance/results within Direct GHG emissions that occur from Debt that takes priority over other
this report means amounts reported sources owned or controlled by the unsecured or otherwise more ‘junior’
under UK-adopted IAS and EU IFRS. In Group - i.e., emissions from combustion debt owed by the issuer. Senior debt has
prior periods Reported performance/ in owned or controlled boilers, furnaces, greater seniority in the issuer’s capital
results were described as Statutory vehicles, as well as fugitive emissions structure than subordinated debt. In the
performance/results. from pressure containing equipment at event the issuer goes bankrupt, senior
Group locations. debt theoretically must be repaid before
Residential mortgage other creditors receive any payment.
A loan to purchase a residential Scope 2 emissions
property which is then used as collateral Indirect GHG emissions from the SICR or Significant increase in
to guarantee repayment of the loan. generation of purchased or acquired credit risk
The borrower gives the lender a lien electricity, steam, heating, or cooling Assessed by comparing the risk of
against the property, and the lender can consumed by the Group. default of an exposure at the reporting
foreclose on the property if the borrower date to the risk of default at origination
does not repay the loan per the agreed Scope 3 emissions (after considering the passage of time).
terms. Also known as a home loan. All indirect GHG emissions (not included
in Scope 2) that occur in the value chain Solo
RoRWA or Return on risk- of the Group, arising from sources not The solo regulatory group as listed in
weighted assets controlled by the Group. This comprises the Prudential Regulation Authority
Profit before tax for year as a of both upstream and downstream waiver written notice dated 21 August
percentage of RWA. Profit may be value chain emissions and includes 2023. This differs from Standard
reported or underlying and is specified absolute financed emissions. Chartered Bank in that it includes the
where used. See ‘RWA’ and ‘Underlying full consolidation of three subsidiaries,
earnings’. Income RoRWA calculated Secured (fully and partially) namely Standard Chartered Holdings
as income for year as a percentage A secured loan is a loan in which the (International) B.V, Standard Chartered
of RWA. borrower pledges an asset as collateral Grindlays PTY Limited, SCMB Overseas
for a loan which, in the event that the Limited.
RWA or Risk-weighted assets borrower defaults, the Group is able to
A measure of a bank’s assets adjusted take possession of. All secured loans are Sovereign exposures
for their associated risks, expressed considered fully secured if the fair value Exposures to central governments and
as a percentage of an exposure value of the collateral is equal to or greater central government departments,
in accordance with the applicable than the loan at the time of origination. central banks and entities owned or
standardised or IRB approach All other secured loans are considered guaranteed by the aforementioned.
provisions. to be partly secured. Sovereign exposures, as defined by the
European Banking Authority, include
Risks-not-in-VaR (RNIV) Securitisation only exposures to central governments.
A framework for identifying and Securitisation is a process by which
quantifying marginal types of market credit exposures are aggregated Stage 1
risk that are not captured in the Value into a pool, which is used to back Assets have not experienced a
at Risk (VaR) measure for any reason, new securities. Under traditional significant increase in credit risk since
such as being a far-tail risk or the securitisation transactions, assets are origination and impairment recognised
necessary historical market data not sold to a structured entity which then on the basis of 12 months expected
being available. issues new securities to investors at credit losses.
different levels of seniority (credit
Roll rate tranching). This allows the credit quality Stage 2
Uses a matrix that gives average loan of the assets to be separated from the Assets have experienced a significant
migration rate from delinquency credit rating of the originating institution increase in credit risk since origination
states from period to period. A matrix and transfers risk to external investors and impairment is recognised on the
multiplication is then performed to in a way that meets their risk appetite. basis of lifetime expected credit losses.
generate the final PDs by delinquency Under synthetic securitisation
bucket over different time horizons. transactions, the transfer of risk is Stage 3
achieved by the use of credit derivatives
Assets that are in default and
or guarantees, and the exposures being
considered credit-impaired
securitised remain exposures of the
(non-performing loans).
originating institution.
Supplementary information Glossary
Standardised approach Sustainable Finance income UK bank levy
In relation to credit risk, a method Income generated from Sustainable A levy that applies to certain UK banks
for calculating credit risk capital Finance products as listed in the Green and the UK operations of foreign banks.
requirements using External Credit and Sustainable Product Framework. The levy is payable each year based on
Assessment Institutions (ECAI) ratings Additional products may be approved a percentage of the chargeable equities
and supervisory risk weights. In relation throughout the year by the Sustainable and liabilities on the Group’s UK tax
to operational risk, a method of Finance Governance Committee. resident entities’ balance sheets. Key
calculating the operational capital exclusions from chargeable equities and
requirement by the application of Sustainable Finance mobilised liabilities include Tier 1 capital, insured
a supervisory defined percentage Mobilisation of Sustainable Finance is or guaranteed retail deposits, repos
charge to the gross income of eight defined as any investment or financial secured on certain sovereign debt and
specified business lines. service provided to clients that liabilities subject to netting.
supports: (i) the preservation and/or
Structured note improvement of biodiversity, nature or Unbiased
An investment tool which pays a return the environment; (ii) the long-term Not overly optimistic or pessimistic,
linked to the value or level of a specified avoidance/decrease of GHG emissions, represents information that is not
asset or index and sometimes offers including the alignment of a client’s slanted, weighted, emphasised,
capital protection if the value declines. business and operations with a de-emphasised or otherwise
Structured notes can be linked to 1.5 degree Celsius trajectory (known as manipulated to increase the probability
equities, interest rates, funds, transition finance); (iii) a social purpose; that the financial information will be
commodities and foreign currency. or (iv) incentivises our clients to meet received favourably or unfavourably
their own sustainability objectives by users.
Subordinated liabilities (known as sustainability-linked finance).
Liabilities which, in the event of Unlikely to pay
insolvency or liquidation of the issuer, Tier 1 capital Indications of unlikeliness to pay shall
are subordinated to the claims of The sum of Common Equity Tier 1 include placing the credit obligation on
depositors and other creditors of capital and Additional Tier 1 capital. non-accrued status; the recognition of a
the issuer. specific credit adjustment resulting from
Tier 1 capital ratio a significant perceived decline in credit
Sustainability Aspirations Tier 1 capital as a percentage of quality subsequent to the Group taking
The Group’s approach to sustainability risk-weighted assets. on the exposure; selling the credit
is underpinned by our Sustainability obligation at a material credit-related
Aspirations, our long-term sustainability Tier 2 capital economic loss; the Group consenting to
goals. Each Sustainability Aspiration Tier 2 capital comprises qualifying a distressed restructuring of the credit
encompasses a number of key subordinated liabilities and related obligation where this is likely to result
performance indicators that we use to share premium accounts. in a diminished financial obligation
measure our progress and outcomes caused by the material forgiveness, or
in areas in which we can make a TLAC or Total loss absorbing postponement, of principal, interest
contribution to the delivery of the UN capacity or, where relevant fees; filing for the
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). obligor’s bankruptcy or a similar order in
An international standard for TLAC
respect of an obligor’s credit obligation
issued by the FSB, which requires G-SIBs
Sustainable Finance assets to the Group; the obligor has sought or
to have sufficient loss-absorbing and
Assets from clients whose business recapitalisation capacity available in has been placed in bankruptcy or similar
activities are aligned with the resolution, to minimise impacts on protection where this would avoid or
Sustainability Bond Framework, those financial stability, maintain the delay repayment of a credit obligation
generated from transactions for which continuity of critical functions and to the Group.
the use of proceeds will be utilised avoid exposing public funds to loss.
VaR or Value at Risk
towards eligible themes and activities
set out within the Sustainability Bond Transition risks A quantitative measure of market risk
Framework, or assets generated estimating the potential loss that will
The risk of changes to market
through Standard Chartered’s own not be exceeded in a set time period
dynamics or sectoral economics
lending activities to small and medium at a set statistical confidence level.
due to governments’ response to
sized enterprises (SMEs) in eligible
climate change.
markets as per the criteria set out in
the Sustainability Bond Framework.
530 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023
Designed and produced by Friend tracked at www.climatepartner.com, giving details of © Standard Chartered PLC. All rights reserved.
www.friendstudio.com the carbon offsetting process including information on
The STANDARD CHARTERED word mark, its logo device
the emissions volume and the carbon offset project
Printed by Park Communications a certified Carbon and associated product brand names are owned by
being supported.
Neutral print company. Standard Chartered PLC and centrally licensed to its
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% operating entities.
Park works to the EMAS standard and its Environmental
of press chemicals are recycled for further use and,
Management System is certified to ISO 14001. Registered Office: 1 Basinghall Avenue, London
on average 99% of any waste associated with this
EC2V 5DD. Telephone +44 (0) 20 7885 8888.
This publication has been manufactured using 100% production will be recycled and the remaining 1%
offshore wind electricity sourced from UK wind. used to generate energy. Principal place of business in Hong Kong: 32nd Floor,
4-4A Des Voeux Road, Central, Hong Kong.
This document is printed on Nautilus Superwhite
100% Recycled paper containing 100% recycled fibre. Registered in England No. 966425.
The FSC® label on this product ensures responsible use
of the world’s forest resources.
This is a certified climate neutral print product for
which carbon emissions have been calculated and
offset by supporting recognised carbon offset projects.
The carbon offset projects are audited and certified
according to international standards and demonstrably
reduce emissions. The climate neutral label includes a
unique ID number specific to this product which can be
532 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2023