Strategic report
Connecting the world’s most dynamic markets
Standard Chartered is a global bank connecting corporate, institutional and
affluent clients to a network that offers unique access to sustainable growth
opportunities across Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
Our strategy combines differentiated cross-border capabilities and leading
wealth management expertise. Our purpose is to drive commerce and
prosperity through our unique diversity.
This is underpinned by our brand promise, here for good.
Financial KPIs1 Non-financial KPIs2
Return on tangible equity (RoTE) Common Equity Tier 1 ratio (CET1) Diversity and inclusion: women in senior roles4
11.7
%
14.2
%
33.1
%
160bps 19bps 0.6ppt
Underlying basis Above our 13-14% target range
Mobilising sustainable finance
9.7 Total shareholder return $121bn
%
130bps 47.5 $34bn
%
Reported basis 2023: 9.4%
Employee net promoter score (eNPS)
20.44
5.42 points
Other financial measures1, 3
Operating income Profit before tax Earnings per share
$19,696 $6,811 168.1
m m cents
14% 21% 39.2 cents
Underlying basis Underlying basis Underlying basis
$19,543
m
$6,014
m
141.3
cents
10% 19% 32.7 cents
Reported basis Reported basis Reported basis
Tangible net asset value
per ordinary share
1,541
cents
148 cents
1 Reconciliations from underlying to reported and definitions of alternative performance measures can be found on pages 54 to 56.
2 For more information on our culture of inclusion see page 40, and for more on our Sustainability Aspirations see page 64.
3 Year-on-year growth on Operating income and Profit before tax is on constant currency basis.
4 Senior leadership is defined as Managing Directors and Band 4 roles (including the Group Management Team).
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 01
Strategic
report
In this report
Strategic report Sustainability review Risk review and Capital review
02 Who we are and what we do 58 Sustainability review 196 Enterprise Risk Management Framework
04 Where we operate 69 Sustainable finance 201 Principal risks
06 Group Chairman’s statement 74 Climate 207 Risk profile
08 Group Chief Executive’s review 90 Nature 256 Climate Risk
12 Key performance indicators 91 Social impact 270 Capital review
14 Market environment 93 Managing Environmental and Social Risk
Financial statements
18 Our strategy 98 Sustainability governance
19 Business model 276 Independent Auditor’s report
Directors’ report
21 Client segment reviews 287 Financial statements
24 Group Chief Financial 104 Group Chairman’s governance overview 294 Notes to the financial statements
Officer’s review 105 Board of Directors
27 Group Chief Risk Officer’s review 110 Management Team Supplementary information
35 Stakeholders 113 Corporate governance 382 Supplementary financial information
42 Sustainability overview 143 Directors’ remuneration report 388 Supplementary people information
45 Viability statement 174 Additional remuneration disclosures 393 Supplementary sustainability information
182 Other statutory and regulatory 396 Shareholder information
Financial review
disclosures 399 Glossary
48 Financial summary 192 Statement of directors’ responsibilities
54 Underlying versus reported results
reconciliations
56 Alternative performance measures
Group Chief Our strategy
Executive’s review
18
08
Sustainability review
Client segment Stakeholders
reviews
58
21
35
About this report
Sustainability and ESG reporting Additionally, we publish an ESG reporting index against Unless another currency is specified, the word ‘dollar’ or symbol
The Group includes Environmental, Social and Governance the voluntary Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Universal ‘$’ in this document means US dollar and the word ‘cent’ or
(ESG) and sustainability information in this Annual Report, Standards and select GRI Topic Standards, and the World symbol ‘c’ means one-hundredth of one US dollar. Disclosures
providing investors and stakeholders with an understanding Economic Forum Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics framework. in the Strategic report, Financial review, Sustainability
of the implications of relevant sustainability-related risks T he Group’s sustainability-related review, Directors’ report, Risk review and Capital review and
and opportunities and progress against our objectives. disclosures can be accessed via S st u a p t p e l d e . m U e n n le t s a s r c y o in n f t o e r x m t r a e t q io u n ir a es re w u it n h a in u d th it e e d d o u c n u le m ss e o n t t h , ‘C er h w in is a e ’
We have observed our obligations under: (i) sections sc.com/sustainabilitylibrary refers to the People’s Republic of China and, for the purposes of
414CA and 414CB of the UK Companies Act 2006; (ii) this document only, excludes Hong Kong Special Administrative
the UK’s Financial Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules in Alternative performance measures Region (Hong Kong), Macau Special Administrative Region
respect of climate-related disclosures; and (iii) the ESG The Group uses a number of alternative performance (Macau) and Taiwan. ‘Korea’ or ‘South Korea’ refers to the
Reporting Guide contained in Appendix C2 to the Rules measures in the discussion of its performance. These Republic of Korea. Asia includes Australia, Bangladesh, Brunei,
Governing the Listing of Securities on the Stock Exchange measures exclude certain items which management believes Cambodia, India, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, Nepal,
of Hong Kong Limited. We have made disclosures are not representative of the underlying performance Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Vietnam, China,
consistent with the Task Force on Climate-Related of the business and which distort period-on-period Hong Kong, Japan, Korea, Macau and Taiwan; Africa includes
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations and comparison. They provide the reader with insight into how Botswana, Côte d’Ivoire, Egypt, Ghana, Kenya, Mauritius, Nigeria,
recommended disclosures throughout this Annual Report. management measures the performance of the business. South Africa, Tanzania, Uganda and Zambia. The Middle East
In preparing this report we have given consideration to includes Bahrain, Iraq, Oman, Pakistan, Qatar and Saudi Arabia
(but do not align in full with) the guidance provided by the F or more information on and the UAE. Europe includes Belgium, Falkland Islands, France,
International Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB) Standards Standard Chartered please visit sc.com Germany, Jersey, Luxembourg, Poland, Sweden, Türkiye and the
finalised in 2023: IFRS S1 and IFRS S2, noting that IFRS S2, UK. The Americas includes Argentina, Brazil, Colombia and the
although largely based on TCFD, requires a more granular All information presented in the Group Chairman’s US. Within the tables in this report, blank spaces indicate that
level of disclosure. IFRS S1 and S2 are voluntary standards and statement, and Group CEO and CFO reviews are on an the number is not disclosed, dashes indicate that the number is
compliance is not yet required in the Group’s listing locations. underlying basis unless otherwise stated. A reconciliation zero and ‘nm’ stands for not meaningful. Standard Chartered PLC
from underlying to reported and definitions of alternative is incorporated in England and Wales with limited liability, and
performance measures can be found on pages 54 to 56. is headquartered in London. The Group’s head office provides
guidance on governance and regulatory standards. Standard
Chartered PLC Stock codes are: LSE STAN.LN and HKSE 02888.
Strategic report Who we are and what we do
Who we are and what we do
Our client segments
We serve three client Client segment Operating income
segments, with support from
1.Corporate & Investment $11,818m
seven global functions. Banking (CIB)
Underlying basis
Supports large corporations, development
3. 1. organisations, governments, banks and $11,863m
investors in accessing cros
4
s
.
- borde1r. trade
and investment opportunities. Reported basis
3.
2.Wealth & Retail $7,816m
Banking (WRB)
Total operating income
Underlying basis
Serves the local and international banking
$19,696m needs of clients across the wealth continuum $7,839m
from Personal to Priority and Private Banking,
as well as small and medium enterprises. Reported basis
Underlying basis
3.V 2 e . ntures $183m
$19,543m
Promotes a culture of innovation across
Underlying basis
the Group, investing in disruptive financial
technology and creating alternative
$183m
Reported basis financial service business models, as well as
growing our digital banks — Mox and Trust.
Reported basis
2. 4.Central & Other Items $(121)m
Underlying basis
$(342)m
Reported basis
Global functions
Our client-facing businesses are supported by our global functions, which work together to ensure
the Group’s operations run smoothly.
Group Chief Partners with the business and collaborates with other functions to execute on the
Financial Office (GCFO) Group strategy. GCFO comprises four areas: Finance, Treasury, Investor Relations and
Corporate Development.
Strategy & Talent Brings together the Corporate Strategy, Group-wide Transformation, Corporate Affairs, Brand &
Marketing, Corporate Real Estate Services, Human Resources, Supply Chain Management and
Fit for Growth programme teams. The function plays a critical role in how we develop, execute
and communicate our strategy and build and deploy our skills and resources to transform the
Bank and achieve sustainable growth.
Technology Responsible for reshaping the Group’s systems and technology platforms to ensure we provide
& Operations robust, responsive and innovative technology and digital solutions. Also manages all client
operations, seeking to provide an optimal client service and experience across the board.
Group Internal Audit An independent function with the primary role of supporting the Board and Management
Team, and protecting the assets, reputation and sustainability of the Group.
Compliance, Financial Partners internally and externally to achieve the highest standards in conduct and compliance
Crime & Conduct Risk to enable a sustainable business and to fight financial crime.
(CFCR)
Legal Provides legal advice and support to the Group in managing legal risks and issues.
Risk Provides oversight and challenge on the Group’s risk management, ensuring that business
is conducted in line with regulatory expectations.
02 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 03
Strategic
report
Our culture
With our focus on cross-border banking and helping We’re committed to promoting equality and inclusion,
generations of families grow their wealth – we remain as it’s our diversity – of people, cultures and networks –
the bank we set out to be over 170 years ago. that sets us apart and helps us drive business growth.
Our distinctive culture has been developed in pursuit of our We are guided by our valued behaviours, our Stands and
purpose – to drive commerce and prosperity through our our brand promise, here for good.
unique diversity. We deliver innovative solutions that create
long-term value for our clients and the communities within
which we operate.
Valued behaviours
Our valued behaviours are key to delivering on our strategy.
As the guiding principles for the way we do business every day,
they help us learn from our successes and take on new challenges.
When we live our valued behaviours, we question, innovate and make bold decisions,
allowing us to take opportunities to go above and beyond for our clients.
Do the right thing Never settle Better together
Doing the right thing means acting We’re ambitious in our constant We build relationships with our
in the best interests of our clients, pursuit of excellence and market- clients and each other so we can
colleagues and stakeholders. leading innovation. share our unique capabilities.
Our Stands
We set long-term ambitions to address some of the Read more on our Stands
sc.com/who-we-are
most pressing societal challenges of our time.
Climate change, deepening inequality and the inequities of globalisation
remain as urgent today as ever before.
Accelerating Lifting Resetting
Zero Participation Globalisation
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 07
Strategic
report
societal changes through our Stands: Accelerating Zero, Lifting diversity of our Board remains critically important, and while
Participation and Resetting Globalisation. all appointments are based on merit, they must also be
In this report we outline further progress against our net zero representative of the diverse clients we serve and markets
roadmap as we disclose the interim targets and science-based in which we operate.
methodologies for our financed emissions in all 12 of the
From possibilities to prosperity
high-emitting sectors as defined by the Net-Zero Banking
Alliance. The addition of a target for the Agriculture sector The early months of 2025 have already proven that, alongside
fulfils our commitment to target setting in support of our clients growth, success and opportunity, there is always risk.
as they navigate the transition of the real-world economy. As a Circumstances can and will change and what we consider to
reminder, 2025 is also the year in which we aim to be net zero in be norms cannot always be taken for granted. As a Group, it is
our Scope 1 and 2 emissions, an important milestone in our own incumbent on us to aid our clients through such circumstances,
net zero journey as a Group. to help them navigate the possibilities that provide a pathway
to growth and prosperity.
This year we also published the Group’s inaugural Transition
Plan which outlines our approach to deliver this change and The world is in a period of transition, from a western-led and
achieve net zero by 2050, demonstrating to clients, suppliers, progressively more integrated global economy to an era
customers and other key stakeholders that the bank has a of ‘multi-alignment’ where major players may act more
clear plan to deliver on the commitments we have made. independently and assertively. The long-running trends of
Our sustainable and transition finance capabilities are a environmental, technological and demographic change are
significant part of our commercial offering and demonstrate being brought into sharper relief by these tensions. This is
the value of our deep expertise in this space as a trusted, re-shaping the way markets interact – and, in turn, the where,
expert adviser. The growth of this business and the broadening how and who of globalisation.
diversity of our product offering give us a leading advisory In 2024, we saw profound changes across geopolitics,
capability that is in high demand in our markets, as they look technology, and the need for a better and more sustainable
to deliver progress against their own adaptation, transition, model of growth. The full scale of the AI opportunity started
and sustainability ambitions. to dawn on businesses and governments alike, with greater
appreciation for how incremental investments can drive
Confident and accountable near-term growth and impact. In the context of ongoing
As a Board, our role is to ensure the highest standards in climate negotiations, the planet exceeded the 1.5C warming
corporate governance and to take a long-term view on how threshold for the first time, bringing us close to a long-term
we can responsibly achieve success for the Group, through trend that may be irreversible.
both our oversight and constructive partnership with the Group Our role is to help our clients, communities and stakeholders
Management Team. navigate transition with confidence, underpinned by the belief
As I reach the end of my nine-year term and prepare to step that change is most powerful and inclusive when it is delivered
down from the Board after this year’s Annual General Meeting in partnership. Although we expect global growth to slow
(AGM), I am especially proud that my successor comes from our slightly in 2025, on the back of strong activity in Asia, Gulf
existing non-executives. I have every confidence that Maria Cooperation Council markets and the US, there is persistent
Ramos will build on the constructive partnership we have built uncertainty in the outlook, in large part because of the
with the Group Management Team and in her ability to lead geopolitical context.
the Group in its next phase of growth. Under her stewardship, This uncertainty will create new risks, but also new
I believe that the Group will continue to seek out opportunity, opportunities in fast-growing trade corridors, sustainable
leverage the talent of our people, remain client-centric and development, and cross-border wealth. This context isn’t new:
resilient, and ensure we can successfully navigate the in recent years, trade routes have been rewired, with many
challenges that may lie ahead. of our markets acting as a channel between east and west.
In reflecting on my time with the Group, I look back to my There are opportunities for our business, anchored in our
original priorities when joining. These were to deliver long-term footprint markets. And also for the world at large, as we have
value by helping the Bank achieve its potential, safeguard and seen concerted efforts to improve supply chain resilience,
strengthen its resilience; and to leave in place an enhanced including reducing carbon footprints.
model of governance. By these measures, I am proud of what At the same time, we must guard against unnecessary friction
we have achieved, and grateful for the contribution of the that raises costs for all involved. We should all remember that,
many colleagues and partners over the years who were integral over the last half a century, trade has been a key driver in
in helping us to, collectively, make credible progress. powering global economic growth, improving living standards
While such work is never complete in any organisation, our and reducing household consumption costs. And open trade
financial performance highlights the value of our franchise. and investment will be crucial if we are to leverage the full
And as we look to the future, we must set a renewed level of benefits of the global technology transformation, and to
ambition. Our ability to adapt and evolve in a fast-changing continue to invest in addressing climate change – including
external and competitive environment will be the measure of in the resilience of markets most exposed to its impacts.
our long-term success. I remain optimistic that, working together, businesses and
I would like to acknowledge the contribution of my fellow Board governments around the world can power world trade and
members during my tenure, and thank those who retired from the next wave of global growth. In that, our role as a super
the Board. Since our last AGM, David Conner stepped down in connector is critical in realising our value as a Group that
December 2024 after nine years. During his tenure we greatly operates in service of our clients and other stakeholders.
benefited from his insights and expertise gained over many
years of working across some of our key markets. He has
likewise played a key role as a member of the Board and our
committees and led the Board Risk Committee with distinction.
Importantly, we also welcomed new members to the Board.
This includes Diane Jurgens, who was announced last year,
and subsequently joined the Board in March 2024, as well as Dr José Viñals
Lincoln Leong, who joined the Board in November 2024.
Group Chairman
Each of our Board members brings valuable personal
21 February 2025
perspectives and the weight of their experience in terms
of expertise in markets and industries. The multi-faceted
Strategic report Group Chief Executive’s review
Group Chief Executive’s review
“ Executing a clear
strategy, delivering
improving returns and
increasing shareholder
distributions”
Bill Winters
Group Chief Executive
Our team has worked hard to make our bank focused, strong and it is now 61 per cent of total CIB income. We also recently
and profitable. We made good progress over the past several announced a long-term strategic partnership with Apollo to
years and 2024 marked further improvement. We have more support and accelerate financing for infrastructure, clean
that we can do and remain focused on further strengthening transition and renewable energy globally. In WRB, we continue
our business and growing our returns. to build on our strengths in affluent, with $44 billion of net new
money in 2024, up 61 per cent on prior year. This is equivalent
We are a global bank connecting corporate, institutional
to a strong 16 per cent growth of affluent assets under
and affluent clients to a network that offers unique access to
management coming from net new money. Also, earlier in
sustainable growth opportunities across Asia, Africa and the
2024 we set-up our first global variable capital company in
Middle East. This distinctive proposition puts us in good stead
Singapore, through which we offer hard-to-access custom-
to help our clients navigate the dynamic conditions we saw
created investment strategies exclusively to our clients, and
throughout the year.
have subsequently launched two such sub-funds.
As a result, we performed strongly in 2024, delivering on our
We remain highly liquid, with a diverse and stable deposit base,
target to continue to increase our return on tangible equity
and a liquidity coverage ratio of 138 per cent. We are well
(RoTE), posting 11.7 per cent for 2024, up 160 basis points on
capitalised, finishing the year with a Common Equity Tier 1
2023, and we remain on-track to achieve our 2026 target of
(CET1) ratio of 14.2 per cent, above our target range, allowing
approaching 13 per cent.
us to increase our full-year ordinary dividend by 37 per cent
Income of $19.7 billion was up 14 per cent on a constant to 37 cents per share. With the proposed final dividend and
currency basis, supported by an encouraging performance the $1.5 billion share buyback announced today, our total
across our big engines of non-net interest income, including shareholder returns announced since the full-year 2023
a record performance in Wealth Solutions, with income up results is $4.9 billion, well on our way to the at least $8 billion
29 per cent, and double-digit growth in Global Markets and three-year cumulative target.
Global Banking.
As we look to the year ahead, I would like to offer my thanks
Good cost discipline has enabled us to generate positive to our much valued and long-standing colleague, José Viñals,
income-to-cost jaws, even with continued underlying who will step down as our Group Chairman later this year.
investments. Credit impairment rose 5 per cent year-on-year, José has been a great partner to me and the members of
mainly from higher charges in Wealth & Retail Banking (WRB), our Board. During his tenure he has been a tireless advocate
while Corporate & Investment Banking (CIB) benefitted from and champion of our business. Under his diligent stewardship
recoveries. The broader portfolios have proved resilient, and as Chairman, he has helped steer the Group and made a
we remain vigilant in the face of a volatile global environment. meaningful contribution to the strong position we hold today.
All this has helped to increase underlying profit before tax by By embodying our brand promise, here for good, he has also
21 per cent year-on-year to $6.8 billion. played critical roles in contributing to the development of the
Our strategy of combining differentiated cross-border international finance sector and in mobilising sustainable
capabilities for corporate and institutional clients with leading finance in service of our markets.
wealth management expertise for affluent clients is working. In wishing José a fond farewell, I would also like to extend a
In CIB, we have increased cross-border (network) income by warm welcome to Maria Ramos who will succeed José as the
11 per cent compound annual growth rate (CAGR) since 2019, Group Chair, subject to regulatory approval. Maria first joined
08 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 09
Strategic
report
our Board as an Independent Non-Executive Director in Strong progress in our leading sustainability
January 2021, and she was appointed Chair of the Board Risk business
Committee and Senior Independent Director in 2022. Maria
Our leading sustainability capabilities are an integral part of
is a seasoned leader and former banker, with a wealth of
our client offering across all our business segments, and the
experience from leadership positions within the private
Group as a whole. We have had another year of strong growth
and public sectors. She also has extensive international
in Sustainable Finance income, which is up 36 per cent year-on-
non-executive and Chair experience as well as a deep
year in 2024, to $982 million, and is very close to our 2025 target
understanding of operating across emerging and
of over $1 billion. We have mobilised $121 billion of Sustainable
developing markets.
Finance since the beginning of 2021, making good progress as
we advance towards our $300 billion target by 2030.
Taking action to concentrate resources on areas
of greatest strength Looking forward, in CIB we will continue to scale Sustainable
Finance and support our clients’ transition journeys across
Our strategy is designed to deliver our purpose, to drive
our markets. In WRB, we will integrate sustainable investments
commerce and prosperity through our unique diversity. This is
into our Wealth Solutions propositions and leverage bank-
underpinned by our brand promise, here for good. In our Q3’24
wide sustainability capabilities as a key differentiator to our
results, we set out a series of further actions to double down
affluent clients.
on our strategy of combining differentiated cross-border
capabilities for corporate and institutional clients with leading Turning to our net zero roadmap, in 2024 we continued to
wealth management expertise for affluent clients. We will deliver against our net zero commitments, completing the
concentrate capital and investment in our areas of greatest baseline and target setting for our 12 highest emitting sectors.
differentiation and competitive strength, further simplifying But we also recognise that achieving our net zero by 2050
our business and helping us to generate higher quality growth, target requires active collaboration and engagement with
deliver sustainably higher returns and improve our RoTE over our clients to support and accelerate their transition and
the medium term. I am therefore pleased to share that we have published our
inaugural Transition Plan alongside this Annual Report.
We have set ourselves ambitious goals that align to delivering
this strategy and we also upgraded our 2026 RoTE target from This year, we also demonstrated our commitment to protecting
12 per cent to approaching 13 per cent. These goals, outlined and restoring nature by becoming an early adopter of the
below, supersede the commitments we previously announced Taskforce on Nature-related Financial Disclosures. Building on
with our 2023 results in February last year. our ambition to shift financial flows towards nature-positive
outcomes, we also partnered with the Government of The
• In our CIB business, we will continue to sharpen our focus
Bahamas, The Nature Conservancy, the Inter-American
on serving the cross-border needs of our larger global
Development Bank, and other financial partners to launch an
corporate and financial institution clients. We are
innovative debt conversion, expected to generate $124 million
optimising resource allocation by reducing the number of
for marine conservation.
clients whose needs do not play directly to our strengths.
• As a result of these actions, we are targeting to increase
Improving operational leverage through the
income from financial institution clients to around
Fit for Growth programme
60 per cent of CIB over the medium-term (51 per cent
in 2024), and to increase the percentage of cross-border In February last year, we launched our bank-wide, three-year,
(network) income to around 70 per cent (61 per cent Fit for Growth programme, which is focused on taking actions
in 2024). to transform the way we operate, addressing structural
inefficiencies and complexity to simplify, standardise and
• In our WRB business, we are solidifying our position as a
digitise key elements of our business, setting the stage for
leading wealth manager in Asia, Africa and the Middle East
accelerated growth.
with a differentiated, fast-growing and high-returning
international affluent franchise. This will be enabled by This programme is targeting to deliver around $1.5 billion of
investing $1.5 billion over five years in our wealth and digital expense savings over three years, and we expect to incur a
platforms, client centres, people and brand and marketing, similar amount in terms of the cost to achieve these sustainable
to accelerate income growth and returns. This investment organisational and financial benefits, creating lasting capacity
will be funded by reshaping our mass retail business to focus to reinvest in our growth.
on developing a strong pipeline of future affluent and
Since its launch we have progressed the programme at pace,
international clients.
having mobilised over 200 projects during 2024, with initiatives
• We are confident that our increased investment and
that focus on sustainable structural improvements. We expect
greater concentration will help us to outperform the market
the majority of the $1.5 billion of savings to ramp up from 2025,
in terms of asset gathering and income growth over the
with a tail of efficiency effects continuing after 2026, albeit
medium term, and we are therefore targeting $200 billion of
several projects executed in 2024 have achieved the equivalent
net new money from 2025 to 2029, a double-digit CAGR in
of around $0.2 billion of annualised savings. We expect to incur
Wealth Solutions income from 2024 to 2029, and for affluent
around 60 per cent of the $1.5 billion cost-to-achieve by the
income share of WRB income to reach 75 per cent by 2029,
end of 2025. We remain committed to delivering positive jaws
from 68 per cent in 2024.
each year on an underlying basis, and for costs to be below
• In Ventures, SC Ventures will continue to promote a culture $12.3 billion in 2026.
of innovation across the Group, investing in disruptive
financial technology and creating alternative financial Delivering substantial shareholder distributions
services and business models. As our portfolio matures,
Our equity generation and discipline on risk-weighted assets
we expect to generate gains on sales or mergers of our
this year have created capacity for us to continue to deliver
ventures and will increasingly obtain third party funding
substantial shareholder distributions, and in our Q3’24 results
for expansion of ventures, demonstrating the economic
we substantially increased our shareholder distribution target
value we are creating. And we expect our two digital banks,
Mox and Trust, to be profitable in 2026. from at least $5 billion to at least $8 billion from 2024 to 2026.
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 13
Strategic
report
Alignment to remuneration Annual incentive is based on measurable
Reward for all Group employees, including executive performance criteria linked to the Group’s strategy
directors, continues to be aligned to the Group’s strategic and assessed over a period of one year.
priorities, through our annual and long-term incentive LTIP awards are granted to senior executives who have
scorecards. Our approach to remuneration is consistent the ability to influence the long-term performance
for all employees and is designed to create alignment with of the Group. Awards are performance dependent
our Fair Pay Charter, which applies globally. However, our based on measurable, long-term criteria.
pay structures may vary according to location (to comply
Read more in our Directors’ remuneration report
with local requirements). Variable remuneration falls into on pages 143 to 174.
two categories: annual incentive and a long-term incentive
plan (LTIP) which are aligned to the KPIs indicated.
Non-financial KPIs
Diversity and inclusion:
Alignment to Alignment to
women in senior roles4 % remuneration Mobilisation of sustainable finance6,7 remuneration
+0.6 +$34
ppt bn
2024 33.1% 2024 $121bn
2023 32.5% 2023 $87bn
2022 32.1% 2022 $57bn
2021 30.7% 2021 The Group announced this target in Q4 2021.
2020 29.5%
Aim Increase representation4 of women in senior Aim Cumulative progress towards our commitment to
leadership roles5 globally to 35 per cent by the end of 2025. mobilise $300 billion between 2021 and 2030.
Progress in 2024 In 2024, the proportion of senior Progress in 2024 We made strong progress against this
leadership roles occupied by women has increased to target during the year.
33.1 per cent. This is up by 0.6 percentage points from
Read more on pages 69 to 73
December 2023 (32.5 per cent) and up 7.8 percentage
points since December 2016 (25.3 per cent).
6 We define mobilisation of sustainable finance as any investment or
4 Subject to local legal requirements financial service provided to clients that supports: (i) the preservation
and/or improvement of biodiversity, nature or the environment; (ii)
5 Senior leadership is defined as Managing Director and Band 4 roles the long-term avoidance/decrease of GHG emissions, including the
(including the Group Management Team). alignment of a client’s business and operations with a 1.5 degree
Celsius trajectory (known as transition finance); (iii) a social purpose;
or (iv) incentivising our clients to meet their own sustainability
objectives (known as sustainability-linked finance). It is a measure
of total capital mobilised and considers the total value of the
committed facilities provided.
7 Figures reflect cumulative sustainable finance mobilised since January
2021 up to September of each year.
Alignment to
Employee net promoter score (eNPS)8 remuneration
-5.42
points
Aim Improve the overall employee experience across
2024 20.44
the Group by creating a better work environment for
our colleagues that should translate into an improved
2023 25.86
client experience.
2022 17.55 Progress in 2024 While the eNPS score dropped by
5.42 points to 20.44 from 25.86 in 2023 (which was our
2021 12.94 highest ever score), it continues to be stronger than
previous years.
2020 17.51 8 eNPS ranges from -100 to +100 and is based on a single question
which measures whether colleagues would recommend working for
the Bank. It is calculated by deducting the percentage of detractors
from the percentage of promoters.
Strategic report Market environment
Market environment
Global macro trends: Macroeconomic factors affecting the global landscape
Trends • Global GDP growth held at 3.2 per cent in 2024, the • Among the majors, the US economy remained resilient,
same as 2023, as central banks began to loosen policy with growth improving to 2.7 per cent from 2.5 per cent
in 2024 in the face of declining inflation. in 2023, led by personal consumption, despite recent
• Asia was the best-performing region, recording growth signs of softening in the labour market. Growth
of 5.0 per cent as ASEAN economies in particular were also recovered in the UK to 0.9 per cent in 2024 as
supported by improving tourism and the semiconductor inflation fell and demand recovered. The euro-area
upcycle. Growth in China was slower relative to 2023, economy grew by 0.7 per cent in 2024, following
but appeared to have accelerated in Q4 helped by 0.4 per cent growth in 2023, as growth was constrained
policy support. Growth in India normalised to 6.2 per by weak investment. In most majors, labour markets
cent from 8.2 per cent in 2023. remained strong, but there are signs of softening.
• Sub-Saharan Africa likely saw growth of 3.4 per cent • Major central banks like the Federal Reserve and
in 2024, an improvement from 3.1 per cent in 2023, European Central Bank started to loosen monetary
supported by easing global financial conditions, the policy from mid-2024 onwards as inflation showed
region’s continued recovery from COVID-19 crisis and clearer signs of returning to target levels, while fiscal
country-specific factors. policy remained accommodative in the US.
Outlook • We expect global economic growth to be broadly • The global economy is facing heightened uncertainty
flat in 2025, slowing slightly to 3.1 per cent from following the US elections. The risk of a tit-for-tat tariff
for 2025 3.2 per cent in 2024. Support from looser financial war has increased with US tariffs on China already
conditions and expansionary fiscal policy may be resulting in retaliatory tariffs on US imports. The US
partly offset by protectionist trade policies and is also threatening to impose tariffs on other trading
still-high interest rates in the US and elsewhere. partners. Tariff wars are likely to result in further trade
• The US economy is set to moderate in 2025, after a diversion and a reorientation of supply chains.
resilient 2024 performance despite elevated interest • Expectations of a shallower rate cutting cycle from
rates. The euro area continues to struggle; major the Fed is likely to translate into a stronger USD and a
European economies including Germany and France steeper US yield curve. Higher US rates and a stronger
risk slipping into recession. Asia is relatively healthy, USD will make it harder for emerging market issuers
although growth at the regional level is set to moderate to borrow in international capital markets, and could
slightly in 2025 as both China and India slow. The Gulf significantly reduce portfolio flows to emerging
Cooperation Council (GCC) should also remain a bright markets. In addition, emerging market central banks
spot for global growth, with the region’s non-oil growth may be constrained from cutting rates meaningfully.
exceeding overall global growth. • On the geopolitical front, markets will be eager to see
if President Trump is able to end the war in Ukraine and
whether the cautious hope which has emerged on the
Middle East’s front outlook proves sustainable.
Medium- Broader global trends • Trump has pledged to use import tariffs to reduce the
US trade deficit and bring production back to the US.
and long- • Long-term growth in the developed world is While this process has begun, uncertainty around the
constrained by ageing populations and high levels
scope and extent of tariff action from the US and likely
term view of debt.
retaliation by trade partners might act as drags on
• Rising nationalism, anti-globalisation and consumer and investor confidence, slowing growth.
protectionism are threats to long-term growth
• Global trade has remained resilient in the face of rising
prospects in emerging markets.
protectionism over the past decade. However, an
• However, there are potential offsets. Higher capex escalation in tariff wars has the potential not only to
to meet sustainability targets, and moves towards accelerate the reorientation of supply chains already
digitalisation could boost productivity growth, proving under way but also lead to lower global trade overall.
an antidote to economic scarring concerns. Within
• Expectations of spending on defence and infrastructure
emerging markets, countries in Asia are best placed to
together with possible tax cuts is likely to be inflationary
take advantage of digitalisation, including generative
and could see the Fed terminal rate settling at a higher
artificial intelligence (AI).
level than in the pre-pandemic period.
• Relatively younger populations, and the adoption
• This would significantly change the global funding
of digital technology, will allow emerging markets to
environment for emerging markets. The external
become increasingly important to global growth.
funding environment for emerging markets will likely
• In order to meet net-zero targets, energy-related be tougher as US Money Market rates could stay
spending will have to increase significantly; headwinds elevated with a higher Fed terminal rate.
include insufficient funds across emerging markets,
• Emerging market economies that are more
labour shortages and supply chain constraints.
domestically driven and have better fiscal and
The world under Trump 2.0 monetary buffers to offset external shocks are likely
• Trump’s victory in the US elections is likely to have to be more resilient to external shocks.
significant implications for the existing geopolitical
environment through the impact for global climate
policy, the UN, Bretton Woods institutions, and US
relations with the EU.
14 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 17
Strategic
report
Highlighting the
impact of extreme
weather and
climate change
The Standard Chartered Weather Photographer of the Year
competition highlights captivating weather and climate
images by amateur and professional photographers.
In 2024, our Malaysian colleague Nur Syaireen Natasya Binti
Azaharin came first in the smartphone category, with her
image ‘Volcanoes’.
The other winners were:
• M ain prize: Wang Xin, from China; ‘Sprites Dancing
in the Dark Night’
• Y outh prize: Angelina Widmann, from Austria; ‘Rain Aria’
• P ublic vote and Climate Award: Gerson Turelly from
Brazil; ‘Rowing’.
Organised by the UK’s Royal Meteorological Society, the
competition helps to raise awareness about the impact
of extreme weather and the changing climate across
our markets.
Read more at sc.com/scwpy
Image credit: ‘Volcanoes’ by Nur Syaireen Natasya Binti Azaharin
Strategic report Strategy
Our strategy
Our strategy is designed to deliver our purpose: to drive commerce
and prosperity through our unique diversity. This is underpinned by our
brand promise, here for good.
We are a global bank connecting corporate, institutional and affluent clients to a network that
offers unique access to sustainable growth opportunities across Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
Cross-border
Combining differentiated
y
cross-border capabilities... bilit
a
n
ai
S
ust
Affluent
…with leading wealth
management expertise
Strategic priorities
Cross-border Affluent
Continue to sharpen our focus on serving Solidify our position as a leading wealth manager
the cross-border needs of our larger global in Asia, Africa and the Middle East with a
corporate and financial institution clients differentiated, fast-growing and high-returning
international affluent franchise
Concentrate our efforts on enhancing our
Invest $1.5 billion over five years in our wealth and
cross-border product and advisory suite to
digital platforms, client centres, people, brand, and
meet our clients’ complex needs
marketing, to accelerate income growth and returns
Optimise resource allocation by reducing the Reshape our mass retail business to focus on
number of clients whose needs do not play developing a strong pipeline of future affluent
directly to our strengths and international banking clients
Continue to scale sustainable finance and Integrate sustainable investments into our
support to our clients’ transition journeys across Wealth Solutions propositions and leverage
our markets bank-wide sustainability capabilities as a key
differentiator to our affluent clients
Cross-border Income from financial Affluent Wealth Solutions
income: institution clients: income: income:
~70% of CIB ~60% of CIB ~75% of WRB Double-digit CAGR
in medium term in medium term by 2029 from 2024 to 2029
18 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Our business model
Our business model reflects our strategy of combining differentiated
cross-border capabilities with leading wealth management expertise.
Our business segments
Corporate & Wealth & Ventures
Investment Banking Retail Banking
(CIB) (WRB)
Supports large corporations, Serves the local and international Promotes a culture of innovation
development organisations, banking needs of clients across the across the Group, investing in
governments, banks and investors wealth continuum from Personal to disruptive financial technology and
in accessing cross-border trade Priority and Private Banking, as well creating alternative financial service
and investment opportunities. as small and medium enterprises. business models, as well as growing
our digital banks – Mox and Trust.
Read more on page 21 Read more on page 22
Our key products and services
Global Markets & Transaction Services Wealth Solutions Retail Products
Global Banking
• Payments and • Investments • Deposits
• Macro, Credit & Liquidity • Bancassurance • Mortgages
Commodities Trading • Trade & Working
• Wealth advice • Credit cards
• Lending & Financial Capital
Solutions • Securities & • Portfolio management • Personal loans
• Capital Markets & Prime Services
Advisory
Our leading Sustainability business is an integral part of our client
Read more on page 57
offering across all our business segments, and the Group as a whole.
Responsible We strive to be a responsible business by operationalising our net zero
targets, managing environmental and social risks, and acting transparently.
business practices
Bespoke sustainable We offer sustainable finance solutions designed to help our clients address
environmental and social challenges and achieve sustainable growth.
finance solutions
Innovation in service We advocate in service of our markets to unlock the areas where capital is
not flowing at scale or not at all and to help drive economic inclusion.
of our markets
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 19
Strategic
report
Read more on page 23
Strategic report Business model
Our resources provide the strong foundation that helps us deliver
our strategy
Human capital Brand recognition
Diversity differentiates us; it is in our purpose We are a leading international banking group with
statement. Delivering our strategy rests on how 170 years of history. In many of our markets we are a
we continue to invest in our people, the employee household name.
experience and culture.
International network Financial strength
Our network is our unique competitive advantage and With our solid balance sheet and prudent financial
connects corporates, financial institutions, individuals management, we are a strong and trusted partner
and small and medium enterprises across some of the for our clients.
world’s fastest-growing and most dynamic markets.
Local expertise Technology
We are deeply rooted in the markets where we operate, Our foundations in technology and data act as key
offering us insights that help our clients achieve their enablers in providing world class client services.
ambitions locally and across borders.
We create long-term value for a broad range of stakeholders
Clients Employees Suppliers
We deliver banking solutions for We believe that employee We partner with diverse suppliers,
our clients across our network both experience drives client experience. locally and globally, to provide
digitally and in person. We help We want all our people to pursue efficient and sustainable goods
individuals grow and protect their their ambitions, deliver with purpose and services for our business.
wealth while connecting corporates and have a rewarding career
and financial institutions to enabled by great people leaders.
opportunities across our network.
Investors Regulators and Society
governments
We aim to deliver robust returns We strive to operate as a sustainable
and long-term sustainable value and responsible company, working
We play our part in supporting
for our investors. with local partners to promote social
the effective functioning of the
and economic development.
financial system and the broader
economy by proactively engaging
with public authorities.
20 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 21
Strategic
report
Client segment reviews
Corporate & Investment Banking
Profit before Return on tangible Network income as % of total CIB income
taxation equity (RoTE)
2024 61 %
$5,581 19.0
m %
2023 61 %
4% underlying basis 50bps underlying basis
2022 54 %
$5,378 m 18.4 Aim: Drive cross-border income by focusing on strategic corridors with
% growth potential
Analysis: Share of network income improved from 54 per cent in 2022 to
6% reported basis 227bps reported basis
61 per cent in 2023 and 2024 as we focus on serving the cross-border needs
of our large global corporate and financial institution clients
Contributions of Financial Institutions segment as %
Risk-weighted
of total CIB income
assets (RWA)
$157 bn 2024 51 %
2023 49 %
$15bn
2022 47 %
Aim: Drive growth in high-returning Financial Institutions segment
Analysis: Share of Financial Institutions income improved to 51 per cent in 2024
as we applied continued focus to this segment to drive income and returns
Segment overview • We increased the share of income from our financial institution
Corporate & Investment Banking (CIB) supports local and large clients as a percentage of total CIB income, from 49 per cent in 2023
corporations, governments, banks and investors with their transaction to 51 per cent in 2024.
services, banking, and financial market needs. We provide • Active management of pass-through rates helped us to maintain
differentiated cross-border capabilities to over 17,000 clients in some a balance between pricing and deposit attrition.
of the world’s fastest-growing economies and most active trade
• Client Digital Transaction Initiation stood at 68.3 per cent (2023:
corridors. Our clients operate or invest in 47 markets across the globe.
64.5 per cent) largely in Cash, Trade and FX. Client experience
Our strong and deep local presence enables us to co-create bespoke remained at the centre of our digital transformation, with our
financing solutions and connect our clients multilaterally to investors, Customer Satisfaction Score at 72 per cent (2023: 61 per cent).
suppliers, buyers and sellers. Our products and services enable our
• We are well on our way towards delivering our target of $1 billion
clients to move capital, manage risk and invest to create wealth.
income from our Sustainable Finance franchise by 2025, and have
Our clients represent a large and important part of the economies
mobilised $121 billion against our $300 billion commitment in
we serve. CIB is at the heart of the Group’s shared purpose to drive
sustainable financing by 2030.
commerce and prosperity through our unique diversity.
We are also committed to promoting sustainable finance in our Performance highlights
markets and channelling capital to where the impact will be greatest. • Underlying profit before tax of $5,581 million increased by 4 per cent
We are delivering on our ambition to support sustainable economic at constant currency (ccy) driven by higher income, partially offset
growth, increasing support and funding for financial offerings that by higher operating expenses and other impairment charge.
have a positive impact on our communities and environment.
• Underlying operating income of $11,818 million increased by
Strategic priorities 6 per cent at ccy primarily driven by strong performance in Global
Markets and Global Banking. Global Markets grew by 15 per cent,
• Deliver sustainable growth for clients by leveraging our network
supported by double-digit growth in both flow and episodic
to facilitate trade, capital and investment flows across our
income. Global Banking also saw a 15 per cent increase due to
footprint markets.
higher loan origination volumes from strong pipeline execution,
• Generate high-quality returns by improving income mix, growing coupled with improved Capital Markets activities. Transaction
capital-lite income and driving balance sheet velocity, while Services remained flat, as 12 per cent increase in Securities & Prime
maintaining disciplined risk management. Services income, driven by higher fees and deposit balances were
• Be a digital-first and data-driven bank that delivers enhanced offset by lower margins in Payments and Liquidity, and Trade &
client experiences. Working Capital products.
• Accelerate our sustainable finance offering to our clients through • Underlying operating expenses were up by 9 per cent at ccy largely
product innovation and enabling transition to a low-carbon future. due to investments and higher performance-related pay, partly
offset by disciplined hiring and control over discretionary spending.
Progress • Credit impairment was a net release of $106 million, benefitting
• Our underlying income performance was driven by our diversified from client recoveries, partly offset by a $58 million overlay for
product suite, expanded client solutions and optimised resource clients who have exposure to Hong Kong’s commercial real estate
allocation by focusing on clients whose cross-border needs played sector. Other impairment charge primarily related to the write-off
directly to our strengths. Our cross-border income contributed to of software assets.
61 per cent of total CIB income with growth across strategic corridors. • Risk-weighted assets of $157 billion were up $15 billion mainly driven
• Resilient balance sheet quality with investment-grade net loans by asset growth and higher market RWA.
and advances to customers represented 66 per cent of total
corporate net loans and advances to customers (2023: 65 per cent).
Strategic report Client segment reviews
Wealth & Retail Banking
Profit before Return on tangible Affluent Net New Money (NNM)¹
taxation equity (RoTE)
2024 $ 43.6 bn
$2,463 24.4
m %
2023 $ 27.1 bn
1% underlying basis 90bps underlying basis
2022 $ 19.1 bn
$2,193 m 21.7 1 Net New Money is shown at YTD constant currency FX rates
% Aim: Achieve NNM1 from new and existing affluent clients, via innovation,
and advisory-led and digital-first Wealth propositions
10% reported basis 301bps reported basis Analysis: Affluent NNM increased by 61 per cent year-on-year in 2024,
supported by strong new-to-bank client acquisition momentum, cross-
border referrals and digital-driven client engagement
Risk-weighted
International affluent clients in wealth hubs
assets (RWA)
$50.5 bn 2024 325 k
2023 274 k
$1bn
2022 202 k
Aim: To solidify our position as a leading international wealth manager by
leveraging our client continuum, global network and expertise in wealth
solutions
Analysis: International affluent clients increased 18 per cent year-on-year
in 2024, delivering ~50 per cent of the three-year growth target set in 2023
Segment overview • Strengthened cross-border and cross-segment collaboration
Wealth & Retail Banking (WRB) serves more than 13 million individuals across our global network to deliver robust growth in international
and small businesses, with a focus on the affluent segment which clients (up 18 per cent year-on-year), resulting in 325,000 new
encompasses Private Bank, Priority Private, Priority Banking, and international clients and a significant contribution to Assets
Premium. In the mass retail space, we are focused on emerging affluent Under Management.
clients who will progress in their wealth journey with us and form the • Continued to launch differentiated wealth solutions such as our
pipeline of future affluent clients. exclusive Signature Select and Signature CIO funds.
We are a leading wealth manager in Asia, Africa and the Middle East, • Digitised and enhanced wealth client journeys with new self-service
as our deep local presence and international network enables us to capabilities, streamlined processes, and more comprehensive
capture the strong structural tailwinds which are driving cross-border portfolio advisory capabilities for both clients and frontline teams.
wealth flows.
• Developed our relationship teams to be better wealth advisers,
Our comprehensive product propositions span across deposits, with about 1,100 frontline relationship managers, team leaders
payments, financing, advisory, investments and bancassurance. and specialists trained in the Standard Chartered-INSEAD Wealth
In particular, our open product architecture allows us to collaborate Academy programmes since launch.
and innovate with product partners to offer best-in-class and first-to-
• Up-tiered 295,000 individual clients through our wealth continuum
market wealth solutions to our clients. We also support our small business
across and within personal and affluent segments, by tailoring
clients with their trade, working capital and other banking needs.
propositions and service models to the needs of our clients.
WRB is closely integrated with the Group’s other client segments; for
• Recognised for excellence in private banking, digital wealth and
example, we offer employee banking services to CIB clients, and we
other capabilities, with over 30 industry awards received in 2024.
also provide a source of high-quality liquidity for the Group.
Performance highlights
Strategic priorities
• Underlying profit before tax of $2,463 million decreased by 1 per cent
• Solidify our position as a leading international wealth manager
at constant currency (ccy) primarily driven by increased operating
and capture Global Chinese and Global Indian opportunities, by
expenses, higher credit and other impairment charge partially offset
leveraging our client continuum, global network and expertise in
by higher income.
wealth solutions.
• Underlying operating income of $7,816 million was up 11 per cent at
• Accelerate our investment in affluent frontline teams, wealth and
ccy, driven primarily by Wealth Solutions, up 29 per cent. This growth
digital platforms, and client centres, as well as brand and marketing,
was broad-based across markets and products, driven by continued
to drive income growth and higher returns.
momentum in Affluent new-to-bank onboarding and net new money.
• Deliver differentiated and advisory-led wealth propositions with CCPL & Other Unsecured Lending income increased by 3 per cent
digital-first and personalised experiences, leveraging an open supported by higher volumes from Partnership-led growth. Deposits
architecture platform. income rose by 4 per cent driven by higher deposit volumes. Mortgage
• Enable access to sustainable investments by integrating ESG into our & Other Secured Lending income was up by 3 per cent benefitting
Wealth Solutions propositions. from higher upfront fees due to new sales momentum in Korea and
Hong Kong, along with improving margins due to lower HIBOR.
• Reshape our mass retail business to focus on building a strong
pipeline of future affluent and international banking clients. • Underlying operating expenses increased by 9 per cent in ccy, primarily
driven by inflation and investment in business growth initiatives
• Improve client experience and efficiency via continuous innovation,
including the strategic hiring of Affluent relationship managers.
digitisation, data analytics and process simplification.
• Credit impairment charge increased $290 million to $644 million
Progress mainly from the higher interest rate environment impacting
• Strong momentum in client growth with the addition of 265,000 repayments on credit cards and personal loans, the growth and
new-to-bank affluent clients, and Net New Money1 across Priority maturity of the digital partnership portfolios in China and Indonesia
Banking and Private Bank reached $43.6 billion, up by 61 per cent as well as $21 million overlay relating to Korea eCommerce platforms.
year-on-year. Other impairment charge primarily related to the write-off of
software assets.
22 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Strategic report Group Chief Risk Officer’s review
Rate Risk in the Banking Book and enhance the Treasury Risk An update on our risk management approach
framework as required. We maintained a resilient liquidity Our Enterprise Risk Management Framework (ERMF) sets
position across the Group and major legal entities throughout out the principles and minimum requirements for risk
2024 with Group liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) at 138 per cent management and governance across the Group. The ERMF
(31 December 2023: 145.4 per cent), a surplus to both Risk is complemented by frameworks, policies and standards
Appetite and regulatory requirements. Common Equity which are mainly aligned to the Principal Risk Types (PRTs)
Tier 1 (CET1) ratio was 14.2 per cent as of December 2024 and is embedded across the Group, including its branches
(31 December 2023: 14.1 per cent) while Leverage ratio was and subsidiaries1.
4.8 per cent (31 December 2023: 4.7 per cent).
The ERMF enables the Group to manage enterprise-wide risks,
Further details on Risk Management for our Principal Risk Types
in page 196 with the objective of maximising risk-adjusted returns while
remaining within our Risk Appetite (RA).
Further details on Managing Climate Risk can be found in
page 256 1 The Group’s ERMF and System of Internal Control applies only to wholly
controlled subsidiaries of the Group, and not to Associates, Joint Ventures or
Structured Entities of the Group.
Principal Risk Types and Risk Appetite
PRTs are those risks that are inherent in our strategy and business model and have been formally defined in the Group’s ERMF.
These risks are managed through distinct Risk Type Frameworks which are approved by the GCRO.
The table below details the Group’s current PRTs and their corresponding RA statements.
Principal Risk Type Definition Risk Appetite Statement
Credit Risk Potential for loss due to failure of a counterparty to The Group manages its credit exposures following
meet its agreed obligations to pay the Group. the principle of diversification across products,
geographies, client segments and industry sectors.
Traded Risk Potential for loss resulting from activities undertaken The Group should control its financial markets
by the Group in financial markets. activities to ensure that market and counterparty
credit risk losses do not cause material damage to
the Group’s franchise.
Treasury Risk Potential for insufficient capital, liquidity, or funding The Group should maintain sufficient capital, liquidity
to support our operations, the risk of reductions in and funding to support its operations, and an interest
earnings or value from movements in interest rates rate profile ensuring that the reductions in earnings
impacting banking book items and the potential for or value from movements in interest rates impacting
losses from a shortfall in the Group’s pension plans. banking book items does not cause material damage
to the Group’s franchise. In addition, the Group should
ensure its pension plans are adequately funded.
Operational and Potential for loss resulting from inadequate or failed The Group aims to control operational and
Technology Risk internal processes, technology events, human error, technology risks to ensure that operational losses
or from the impact of external events (including (financial or reputational), including any related to the
legal risks). conduct of business matters, do not cause material
damage to the Group’s franchise.
Information and Risk to the Group’s assets, operations, and The Group aims to mitigate and control ICS risks
Cyber Security (ICS) individuals due to the potential for unauthorised to ensure that incidents do not cause the Bank
Risk access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, material harm, business disruption, financial loss
or destruction of information assets and/or or reputational damage – recognising that while
information systems. incidents are unwanted, they cannot be entirely
avoided.
Financial Crime Risk2 Potential for legal or regulatory penalties, material The Group has no appetite for breaches of laws and
financial loss or reputational damage resulting regulations related to Financial Crime, recognising
from the failure to comply with applicable laws that while incidents are unwanted, they cannot be
and regulations relating to international sanctions, entirely avoided.
anti-money laundering and anti-bribery and
corruption, and fraud.
Compliance Risk Potential for penalties or loss to the Group or for an The Group has no appetite for breaches of laws and
adverse impact to our clients, stakeholders or to regulations related to regulatory non-compliance;
the integrity of the markets we operate in through recognising that while incidents are unwanted, they
a failure on our part to comply with laws, or cannot be entirely avoided.
regulations.
Environmental, Social Potential or actual adverse impact on the The Group aims to measure and manage financial
and Governance and environment and/or society, the Group’s financial and non-financial risks arising from climate change,
Reputational (ESGR) performance, operations, or the Group’s name, reduce emissions in line with our net zero strategy
Risk brand or standing, arising from environmental, and protect the Group from material reputational
social or governance factors, or as a result of the damage by upholding responsible conduct and
Group’s actual or perceived actions or inactions. striving to do no significant environmental and
social harm.
Model Risk Potential loss that may occur because of decisions The Group has no appetite for material adverse
or the risk of misestimation that could be principally implications arising from misuse of models or errors
based on the output of models, due to errors in in the development or implementation of models;
the development, implementation, or use of while accepting some model uncertainty.
such models.
2 Fraud forms part of the Financial Crime RA Statement but, in line with market practice, does not apply a zero-tolerance approach
As of November 2024, the Climate Risk RA statement was integrated into the ESGR PRT.
Further details on our Risk Management Approach can be found on pages 196 to 206.
28 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 29
Strategic
report
Topical and Emerging Risks (TERs)
Topical Risks refer to themes that may have emerged but are still evolving
rapidly and unpredictably. Emerging Risks refer to unpredictable and
uncontrollable outcomes from certain events which may have the potential
to adversely impact our business.
As part of our ongoing risk identification process, we have Expanding power blocs such as BRICS may coalesce and
updated the Group’s TERs from those disclosed in the 2024 become more effective at exercising their increased collective
Half-Year Report. These remain relevant with nuances in their influence, such as establishing parallel financial infrastructures
evolution noted where pertinent. Below is a summary of the (payment system, development bank, credit rating agency) to
TERs, and the actions we are taking to mitigate them based support their trade. Other coalitions between more actively
on our current knowledge and assumptions. This reflects the anti-Western regimes such as Russia, North Korea, Syria and
latest internal assessment by senior management. Iran could prove more volatile in their attempts to shift the axis
of power.
The TER list is not exhaustive and there may be additional
risks which could have an adverse effect on the Group. The 2024 global election cycle culminated with the US
There are some horizon risks that, although not highly likely at elections in November. Donald Trump’s victory signals
present, could become threats in the future and thus we are forthcoming changes to relationships with traditional allies
monitoring them. These include future pandemics and the such as Europe, given the focus on NATO spending and trade
world’s preparedness for them, and potential cross-border surpluses. Tariffs may also be implemented in response to
conflicts. Our mitigation approach for these risks may not non-economic issues such as immigration.
eliminate them but demonstrates the Group’s awareness and
There have also been notable shifts in government
attempt to reduce or manage their impact. As certain risks
composition in France, UK, South Africa, Bangladesh and
develop and materialise over time, we will take appropriate
Sri Lanka, as well as political crises in Canada, South Korea
steps to mitigate them based on their materiality to the Group.
and Germany. Amid changes in governments, there is a
growing worldwide trend for short-term populist measures
Macroeconomic and geopolitical considerations
that are outweighing longer-term political necessities, such
There is a complex interconnectedness between risks due to as addressing climate change or demographic transitions.
the direct influence of geopolitics on macroeconomics, as well
Relations between the West, led by the US and the EU, and
as the global or concentrated nature of key supply chains for
China are in a state of flux. Tariffs, embargos, sanctions,
energy, food, semi-conductors and critical minerals.
and restrictions on technology exports and investments
The Group is exposed to these risks directly through are expected to increase in pursuit of both economic and
investments, infrastructure and employees, and also security goals.
indirectly through its clients. While the primary impact
The malicious use of AI enabled disinformation could continue
is financial, there may be other ramifications such as
to cause disruption and undermine trust in the political
reputational, compliance or operational considerations.
process. This, combined with already fractured societies
Expanding array of global tensions and transition of the and persistent inequality, may lead to heightened societal
international order tensions. Terrorism and cyber warfare are also ongoing
threats, with unpredictability exacerbated by the wider range
The international order is undergoing a transition, with a
of ideologies at play. Cyber attacks can disrupt infrastructure
shift towards a multi-aligned global system resulting in more
and institutions in rival countries.
transactional and less predictable interactions between
global powers. This can give rise to new and more fluid A more complex and less integrated global political and
political and economic alliances, accelerated by the economic landscape could challenge cross-border business
increasing number of conflicts, specifically those in Ukraine models but also provide new business opportunities.
and the Middle East.
Uncertain interest rate trajectory and credit downturn
While the Group has limited direct exposure to the countries
Although rate cuts have been enacted by all major central
which are currently involved in conflicts, it may be impacted
banks, with further cuts signalled, the scale and pace of cuts
by second order effects on its clients and markets such as
are still highly uncertain. Structurally higher deficits, continued
agricultural commodities, oil and gas. The threat of escalation
supply disruptions, military spending and other inflationary
to the wider Middle East region remains present, despite a
pressures, such as additional tariffs, may keep rates higher.
Gaza ceasefire agreement being reached in January 2025,
and could affect markets in the Group’s footprint. Regional A ‘higher-for-longer’ rate environment would continue to
volatility has increased following the collapse of the Assad stretch companies and sovereigns alike, with the global
regime in Syria. corporate default rate remaining well above the post-
financial crisis average in 2024. Stress has continued in the
The positioning of ‘middle powers’ is complex and evolving,
global commercial real estate sector and may extend to
and there is a rise in ‘mini-lateral’ groupings of countries that
fixed-rate mortgages. In contrast, aggressive cuts could
are ideologically or geographically aligned. The negotiating
renew inflation.
power of exporters of key resources has grown and can shape
global markets.
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 31
Strategic
report
• We have a dedicated country risk team that closely • Detailed portfolio reviews and stress tests are conducted
monitors sovereign risk. to test resilience to climate-related physical and transition
risks and enhance modelling capabilities to understand the
• We run a series of daily market risk stress scenarios to assess
financial risks and opportunities from climate change.
the impact of unlikely but plausible market shocks.
• We assess our relevant corporate clients and suppliers
• We run a suite of management scenarios with differing
against various international human rights principles,
severities to assess their impact on key risk appetite metrics.
as well as through our social safeguards.
• We regularly review our third-party arrangements to
improve operational resilience. Modern slavery statement: sc.com/modernslavery
ESG considerations Human Rights Position Statement: sc.com/humanrights
ESG risk
Higher frequencies of extreme weather events are observed New business structures, channels and competition
each year and the cost of managing the climate impacts is
Competition arising from technological developments
increasing, with the burden disproportionately borne by
and non-bank lending
developing markets, where we have a large footprint.
Traditional banking faces challenges in its external
Alongside climate, other environmental risks pose incremental
competitive environment from a range of fintechs and private
challenges to food, health systems and energy security; for
credit players, which disintermediate and cause disruption to
example, biodiversity loss, pollution, and depletion of water.
traditional lenders as well as public markets. There are also
Modern slavery and human rights concerns are increasingly in ‘digital enterprise’ business models, which integrate financial
focus with the scope expanding beyond direct operations to services with emerging technologies like AI, big data analytics
extended supply chains and vendors. and cloud computing fostering financial disintermediation.
ESG regulation continues to develop across the world, often The rapid adoption of AI in particular raises a number of
with differing taxonomies and disclosure requirements. This challenges. There has been a large increase of AI use in
increased regulation is also generating stakeholder scrutiny frauds and scams, and there are potential societal and
on greenwashing risk, with ESG litigation being brought economic impacts of the technology being used to replace
against corporations and governments in multiple markets. jobs across most sectors. However, with AI tools and models
However, a succession of political, social and economic being embedded into everyday life it is likely to become
disruptions in recent years have diverted attention and a foundational technology. Leveraging the benefits of
resources away from longer-term action on climate and augmented AI while managing these risks will be a core
sustainable development as competing spending demands part of the Group’s business model.
are made of stretched budgets. This will be further While there are challenges, banks themselves also have
exacerbated by the new Trump administration, which has an opportunity to defend or leverage their competitive
rolled back green energy policies, and withdrawn the US advantage by harnessing new technologies, partnerships
from the Paris Agreement. or new asset classes.
For companies and governments, the trade-off between In the longer term, increased adoption of stable coins and
pragmatism and environmentalism has crystallised with digital currencies could similarly create alternative deposit
several delaying or rolling back targets. For example, there has channels and bank disintermediation.
been a significant reduction in the number of ESG-focused
The rapid adoption of new technologies, partnership models
funds launched in 2024, and there has been a lack of progress
or digital assets by banks brings a range of inherent risks,
at the recent COP meeting. Several US and Canadian banks
requiring clear operating models and risk frameworks. It is
have withdrawn from the Net-Zero Banking Alliance. A slower
essential to upskill our people to develop in-house expertise
transition to low carbon business models may impact progress
and capabilities to manage associated risks, including model
towards the Group’s net zero targets and product roadmap.
risks or managing external third parties which deliver these
How these risks are mitigated technologies. We must ensure that the people, process and
technology agendas are viewed holistically to ensure the most
• Climate Risk considerations are embedded across all
effective and efficient implementation of new infrastructure.
relevant Principal Risk Types. This includes client-level
Climate Risk assessments, including setting adequate
Cyber security and data challenges
mitigants or controls as part of decision making and
The Group’s digital footprint is expanding. This increases
portfolio management activities.
inherent cyber risk as more services and products are digitised,
• We embed our values through our Position Statements for outsourced and made more accessible. Highly interconnected
sensitive sectors and a list of prohibited activities. We also and extended enterprises drive efficiencies but can expand
maintain ESG and Reputational Risk standards to identify, the opportunities available for malicious actors to gain entry
assess and manage these risks when providing financial or access to corporate assets. This includes infrastructure such
services to clients. as cloud and third-party enabled services.
• The management of greenwashing risks has been The risk of cyber incidents is amplified by highly organised
integrated into our ESG and Reputational Risk Framework, and resourced threat actors including organised crime and
Reputational Risk policy, Sustainable Finance product nation states, with malicious activity made easier through
greenwashing standard, and Corporate Affairs, Brand the commoditisation or ‘as a service’ access to malicious tools
and Marketing standards for communications and and technologies. Emerging technology such as AI is enabling
segment campaigns. novel or augmented attack types, and cross-border tensions
further drive the arms race to develop more capable and
innovative cyber capabilities, both offensive and defensive.
Strategic report Group Chief Risk Officer’s review
Geopolitical dynamics are leading to progressively Jurisdictional risk arises from internationally diverging
fragmented and divergent regulatory frameworks through regulations, with differing pace and scale of regulatory
which the Group must navigate. There are growing data adoption, conflicting rules, extraterritorial and localisation
sovereignty requirements to localise data, systems and requirements around data, staff, capital and revenues.
operations, with data increasingly recognised as being at Data sovereignty and ESG regulation are prime examples
the centre of global trade. of jurisdictional risk.
This makes it challenging for multinational groups to manage
How these risks are mitigated
cross-border activities, as well as adding complexity and cost.
• We monitor emerging technology trends, business models
Such fragmented regulatory changes can also create frictions
and opportunities relevant to the banking sector.
in the market as a whole.
• We invest in our capabilities to prepare for and protect
against disruption and new risks. How these risks are mitigated
• We actively monitor regulatory developments, including
• We have established enhanced governance for novel areas,
those related to sustainable finance, ESG, digital assets and
such as the Digital Asset Risk Committee and the
AI and respond to consultations either bilaterally or through
Responsible AI Council.
well-established industry bodies.
• We manage data risks through our Compliance Risk Type
• We track evolving country-specific requirements, and
Framework and information security risks through our
actively collaborate with regulators to support important
Information and Cyber Security (ICS) Risk Type Framework.
initiatives.
We maintain a dedicated Group Data Conduct Policy with
globally applicable standards. These standards undergo • We help shape regulation, particularly in new areas like
regular review to ensure alignment with changing AI and Central Bank Digital Currencies, through thought
regulations and industry best practice. leadership, and actively engaging with policymakers and
central banks.
• We augment our data risk management capabilities and
controls, including through programmes to enhance data
Demographic considerations
quality and compliance with Basel Committee of Banking
Supervision 239 requirements and to address evolving Skills of the future
legal and regulatory requirements relating to privacy and
Evolving client expectations and the rapid development of
personal data protection, cross-border data transfers and
technologies such as AI are transforming the workplace, and
the use of AI, with progress tracked at executive level risk
further accelerating changes to how people deliver outcomes,
governance committees.
connect and collaborate. The skills needed to grow businesses
• Risks embedded in key software programmes are and sustain careers are being disrupted as a result, with a
continuously reassessed together with enhancements balance of both technical and human skills becoming
made in testing stages of new systems before they go live. increasingly critical.
• The Group has implemented a ‘defence-in-depth’ ICS Workforce expectations also continue to evolve. ‘What’ work
control environment strategy to protect, detect and people do and ‘how’ they get to deliver it have become
respond to known and emerging ICS threats. differentiators in attracting future-focused talent. There is
greater desire to do work aligned to individual purpose and
• New risks arising from partnerships, alliances, digital
to have increasing expectations from employers to invest in
assets and generative technologies are identified through
skills and careers. These trends are even more distinct among
the New Initiatives Risk Assessment and Third-Party Risk
Millennials and Gen Z who make up an ever-increasing
Management Policy and Standards.
proportion of the global talent pool, and as digital natives
• Work is already under way to gauge the potential possess the attributes needed to pursue our strategy.
benefits and threats of nascent technologies such as
To sustainably attract, grow and retain the relevant skills
quantum computing.
and talent, we must continue to invest in building future-
focused skills as well as further strengthen our Employee
Regulatory considerations
Value Proposition (EVP) and brand promise.
Regulatory evolution and fragmentation
Demographic and migration trends
The regulatory framework for banks is expanding, becoming
more complex and remains subject to continual evolution. Divergent demographic trends across developed and
Another outcome of the new Trump administration may be emerging markets create contrasting challenges. Developed
a relaxation of US regulation, and potentially a challenge markets’ state budgets will be increasingly strained by ageing
to its adoption of Basel 3.1 rules. The UK has postponed its and shrinking populations, while political stances reduce
implementation of Basel 3.1 twice, with the current deadline the ability to fill skills gaps through immigration. Conversely,
being 2027. emerging markets are experiencing fast-growing, younger
workforces. While it is an opportunity to develop talent,
Aside from changes in prudential, financial markets, climate population growth will put pressure on key resources such as
and data regulations, we anticipate a rise in consultations food and water, as well as government budgets for education
and regulations relating to the use of AI, and particularly and health to capitalise on the ‘demographic dividend’.
around its ethical application in decision-making.
32 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 35
Strategic
report
Stakeholders
This section forms our Section 172 disclosure,
As a global bank operating describing how the directors considered the
in 53 markets, stakeholder matters set out in section 172(1)(a) to (f) of
the Companies Act 2006. It also forms the
engagement is crucial in
directors’ statement required under section
ensuring we understand local, 414CZA of the Act.
regional and global perspectives
See the following pages for:
and trends which inform how • How we engage stakeholders to understand their interests.
See pages 35 to 41
we do business.
• How we engage employees and respond to their interests.
See pages 38 to 41
• How we respond to stakeholder interests through
Our stakeholders
sustainable and responsible business. See pages 35 to 41
• How the Board engages directly with shareholders and
other stakeholders. See pages 103 to 192
Clients
Listening and responding to stakeholder priorities and
concerns is critical to achieving our purpose and delivering on
our brand promise, here for good. We strive to maintain open
Regulators and governments and constructive relationships with a wide range of
stakeholders including clients, regulators and governments,
investors, suppliers, society and employees.
Investors Stakeholder feedback, where appropriate, is communicated
internally to senior management through the relevant forums
and governing committees such as the Sustainability Forum,
and to the Board’s Culture and Sustainability Committee
Suppliers
which oversees the Group’s approach to its main relationships
with stakeholders.
We communicate progress regularly with external
Society stakeholders through channels such as sc.com, established
social media platforms and this report. Further information
on how we engage with our stakeholders, and the initiatives
that we are members of, can be found at sc.com/
Employees
sustainabilitystakeholders
Clients
How we create value Fees and charges are disclosed to clients in line with
We want to deliver easy, everyday banking solutions to our regulatory requirements and industry best practice and,
clients in an innovative yet simple and cost-effective way with where available, benchmarked against competitors. For
a great customer experience. We enable individuals to grow, personal and SME banking products, agreed interest rates,
protect and pass on their wealth; we help businesses trade, fees and other charges as billed to clients are monitored
transact, invest and expand; and we help a variety of financial and assessed locally, with global oversight.
institutions, including banks, public sector and development Triggers for outlier fees and charges are defined and subject
organisations, with their banking needs. to annual review. Complaints are reviewed on an ongoing
basis and are one of the factors that are taken into account
How we serve and engage prior to amendments to annual interest, fees and charges.
Our push for a best-in-class client experience is underpinned We also assess our product portfolio for new risks to ensure
by innovative products and digital straight-through services. they remain appropriate for client needs and aligned to
This includes building capability to protect our clients against emerging regulation. These quantitative and qualitative
evolving risks in the ecosystem, like fraud and cyber security, assessments, including Periodic Product Reviews, are intended
and comes with education and increased client to provide a complete view of whether to continue, enhance,
communication. grow or retire products.
To act in the best interests of our clients, we use the insights Training is provided to frontline employees across our
gathered from our data alongside robust policies, procedures branches and contact centres to identify and support
and the Group’s risk appetite to design and offer products and vulnerable clients. We have also implemented an
services that meet client needs, regulatory requirements and educational training programme for clients who need
Group performance targets. guidance in navigating online and mobile channels.
Strategic report Stakeholders
Clients continued
Throughout 2024, we maintained our sharp focus on improving We are scaling up where we can offer our clients a
the client experience across the Bank. We engaged with differentiated service, such as Securities Services – capitalising
clients to show them the opportunities trade corridors could on local custodian capabilities across Africa and the Middle
bring and how using our network could help them flourish. East and the growing demand from financial institutions –
as well as sustainable finance, Islamic banking and RMB
Our presence in high-growth markets – and ongoing roll-out
internationalisation, all of which are being embedded into
of digital platforms – helps connect our clients to the global
our global business teams.
engines of trade and innovation. As part of our aim to reach
net zero in our financed emissions by 2050, our transition
Their interests
finance team has been working closely with our clients in
hard-to-abate sectors on their own transitions. This is in • Differentiated product and service offering
addition to our commitment to mobilise $300 billion of • Digitally enabled and positive experience
sustainable finance between 2021 and 2030.
• Sustainable finance
Across the Bank, we have processes and controls aimed to • Access to international markets
mitigate greenwashing risks, and to support transparency
we publish the details of what constitutes our sustainable
products and investments universe externally.
Regulators and governments
Wealth & Retail Banking
In 2024, we continued to expand our suite of solutions to help How we create value
clients grow, protect and pass on their wealth, including core We engage with public authorities to play our part in
fund offerings for mass affluent clients to alternatives and supporting the effective functioning of the financial system
structured solutions for high-net-worth clients. and the broader economy.
We strengthened our propositions and capabilities, adding
global experiences, wealth planning, family advisory and How we serve and engage
trust services. We engage with government, regulators and policymakers
at the global, regional and national level as well as trade
In addition, we have evolved our managed investments
associations to share insights and support the development
business to focus on helping clients build foundational and
of best practices and adoption of consistent approaches
opportunistic portfolios. To support this, we offer innovative
across our markets. During 2024, we engaged on the following
solutions, including our Signature CIO Funds, a series of
key topics:
foundational portfolios built on our CIO insights, available in
12 markets and contributing $2.1 billion dollars in Wealth AUM. • Financial services, including but not limited to prudential
regulations, financial markets, and financial conduct and
We also launched our first Young Entrepreneur Programme.
financial crime.
The inaugural programme was curated in collaboration
with INSEAD and SC Ventures – our innovation, fintech • Sustainable finance, across a wide range of sub-topics such
investment and ventures arm – and focused on supporting as transition finance, carbon markets, adaptation and
high-net-worth clients’ next generation with business and resilience, and climate risk.
entrepreneurial skills. It garnered positive feedback from the • Technologies and digital assets, including for example
53 young participants who joined from eight markets across stablecoin and crypto assets, digital asset custody, data
our network. sovereignty or the use of artificial intelligence (AI) and
international trade and digital trade such as digital
Corporate & Investment Banking tokenisable trade assets.
In 2024, we sharpened our focus on serving the cross-border
needs of our largest and most sophisticated corporate and Their interests
financial institution clients who require risk management, • Strong capital base and liquidity position appropriate to
financing and sector advisory expertise across Asia, Africa a global systemically important bank
and the Middle East.
• Robust standards for financial conduct and financial crime
Our network and experience, combined with our presence in • Competitive economies and markets
valuable cross-border hubs, means that we can help clients
• Sustainable finance and net zero transition
from around the world access new corridors of globalisation.
• Digital innovation and use of AI in financial services
We continue to connect capital flows to, through and from
Africa, the Middle East and Asia and play a leading role in • Operational resilience
promoting sustainable finance. • Market integrity and customer protection
In 2024, in Africa, for example, we were involved in EUR533 • International and digital trade
million of financing, backed by the African Development Bank, • Financial stability
for the government of Côte d’Ivoire and EUR1.29 billion of
financing for the Angolan Ministry of Finance to construct
photovoltaic electricity distribution infrastructure. Our clients
are at the heart of what we do; everything we have done
structurally in 2024 is about leveraging our platform so that
we can do more business with them.
36 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 37
Strategic
report
Investors Investors continued
How we create value In 2025, we will continue to engage with investors on progress
We aim to deliver robust returns and long-term sustainable against our strategic priorities and actions, as well as our
value for our investors. financial framework as we progress towards delivering
sustainably higher returns.
How we serve and engage
Their interests
We rely on capital from debt and equity investors to
execute our business model. Whether they have short or • Safe, strong and sustainable financial performance
long-term investment horizons, we provide our investors • Facilitation of sustainable finance to contribute to the
with information about progress against our strategic and United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
financial frameworks. • Progress on ESG matters, including advancing our net
Through our footprint and the execution of our sustainability zero agenda
agenda, we provide our investors with exposure to
opportunities in emerging markets. We believe that our
integrated approach to environmental, social and Suppliers
governance (ESG) issues and a strong risk and compliance
culture, are key differentiators. We continue to respond to
growing interest from a wide range of stakeholders on ESG Supporting a sustainable supply chain
matters, including investors. We measure and manage our Scope 3 upstream emissions
and work in partnership with our suppliers to calculate
The Group delivered a strong set of results in 2024. Our focus
emissions and set net zero targets where appropriate. For
is on building on our double-digit return on tangible equity
further details on our net zero and supply chain emissions
(RoTE) and accelerating to deliver sustainably higher returns
programmes visit page 76.
over the next three years. We are now targeting a RoTE
approaching 13 per cent in 2026. We aim to achieve this
Supporting a diverse and inclusive supply chain
through income growth, expense discipline, ongoing
transformation and active capital management as outlined We are committed to building mutually beneficial
in our 2024–2046 financial framework, launched at the start relationships with our suppliers to reflect the diverse
of 2024. communities and cultures we operate in. To support this, our
supplier diversity and inclusion programme aims to direct
Regular and transparent engagement with our investors,
spend and offer support where appropriate, to small and
and the wider market, helps us understand investors’ needs
diverse businesses.
and tailor our public information accordingly. In addition
to direct engagement via our Investor Relations team, we Supplier diversity at Standard Chartered incorporates
communicate through quarterly, half-year and full-year businesses owned by under-represented individuals or groups
results, conferences, roadshows, investor days and – such as women and ethnic minorities, as well as micro and
media releases. small businesses. Further details on the principles of Supplier
Diversity and Inclusion can be found in our Supplier Diversity
We continued to expand our use of virtual meetings during
and Inclusion Standard at: sc.com/supplier-standard
2024, coupled with a growing number of face-to-face
interactions. We also hosted an Affluent Investor seminar To help drive our programme, we are corporate members of
in December and a deep dive for Chinese investors in not-for-profit organisations dedicated to supporting diverse
September. suppliers. This collaboration positions us to identify and
engage small and diverse suppliers, share in best practices,
Key investor feedback, recommendations and requests are
and maintain awareness about diverse supplier needs.
considered by the Board, whose members keep abreast of
current topics of interest. Standard Chartered PLC’s Annual In addition, we engage and support our diverse suppliers
General Meeting (AGM) in May was open to shareholders hosting two face-to-face supplier diversity events in
either in person or electronically via a live video feed of the partnership WEConnect – a global network supporting
meeting. All participants had the opportunity to submit their women-owned businesses – in 2024. The events focused
votes and ask the Board questions. The AGM is our principal on networking, sharing best practices in the sustainability
engagement event with our retail investors. Further details of field and supplier awards.
our 2024 AGM are on page 185.
For further details of our supplier diversity programme and supplier
Similarly, the Group Chairman, alongside some members of awards events visit sc.com/supplier-diversity
the Board, hosted a hybrid stewardship event for institutional
investors in December providing shareholders with updates
on a number of topics, including sustainability, net zero and Their interests
governance matters. The event included an open question- • Open, transparent and consistent tendering process
and-answer session
• Accurate and on-time payments
We continue to respond to growing interest from a wide • Willingness to adopt supplier-driven innovation
range of stakeholders on ESG matters, including investors.
• Obtain guidance on implementation of
sustainability matters
Strategic report Stakeholders
Society Employees
How we create value
How we create value
We strive to operate as a sustainable and responsible
We recognise that our workforce is key to driving our
company, leveraging our partnerships, networks and expertise
performance and productivity and that the diversity of our
to help transform our markets for long-term societal and
people, cultures and network sets us apart. To be the best
environmental impact, create more inclusive economies and
cross-border and affluent bank to our clients, our workforce
increase equitable prosperity.
composition, including the skills and engagement of our
people, is a strategic source of competitive advantage.
How we serve and engage
So we are developing a workforce that is future ready, and
are co-creating with our employees to build an inclusive,
Our Futuremakers partners
innovative and client-centric culture.
With the Standard Chartered Foundation, we advanced
our strategic partnerships with NGOs and civil society
How we serve and engage
organisations in support of Futuremakers by Standard
By engaging employees and fostering a positive experience
Chartered, our global youth economic empowerment
for them, we can better serve our clients and deliver on our
initiative. Shifting to an impact-focused strategy, we’ve
Purpose. A culture of inclusion and ambition enables us to
engaged our partners to co-design long-term programmes
unlock innovation, make better decisions, deliver our business
towards achieving our target of enabling and supporting
strategy, live our valued behaviours and embody our brand
140,000 decent jobs between 2024 and 2030.
promise here for good. We proactively assess and manage
To deepen our understanding of the impacts of our people-related risks, such as capacity, capability and culture,
programmes, we refined our results monitoring framework as part of our Group Risk Management Framework. Our
and developed a model to estimate the societal return on people strategy, approved by the Board, is future-focused,
our Futuremakers investments. This provides a more holistic with external events accelerating many of the future of work
analysis to enhance the impact potential of our programmes. trends which continue to inform our approach.
We share learning from our new programmatic models both
across our portfolio and externally with our peers. Their interests
Translating our brand promise and purpose of driving
Our external stakeholders
commerce and prosperity through our unique diversity into
We seek to promote greater economic inclusion through our
our colleagues’ day-to-day experience is critical to us
networks, events and sponsorships. In collaboration with
remaining an employer of choice across our footprint. The
Business Fights Poverty, we hosted various learning events,
research we have on our employee value proposition (EVP)
including a gender-focused panel discussion to celebrate
tells us that our existing and potential employees want to:
International Women’s Day and a thematic discussion on
have interesting and impactful jobs; innovate within a diverse
plugging the financing gap for young entrepreneurs at their
set of markets and for a spectrum of clients; cultivate a brand
Global Goals Summit in Nairobi and New York, during the
that sustainably drives commerce and offers enriching careers
United Nations General Assembly meetings. The aim of these
and development; and be supported by great people leaders.
events was to identify actionable strategies and innovative
They want these elements to be anchored in competitive
partnerships to address global challenges. In addition, we
rewards and a positive work–life balance. The employment
sponsored Women of the World Foundation (WOW) as their
proposition is a key input to our people strategy which
Global Girls’ Champion to run the WOW bus tour, bringing
supports the delivery of our business strategy.
gender equality learning to girls and young people across the
UK, and we extended the WOW festival to Pakistan and Turkey,
Listening to employees
reaching over 23,000 children and young people in half a year.
Frequent feedback from employee surveys helps us identify
and close gaps between colleagues’ expectations and their
Our colleagues
experience. Colleague sentiment is captured through an
We encourage colleagues to give back to their communities
annual survey as well as regularly through a weekly survey and
using their three days paid volunteering leave. To enable a
at key moments, such as when employees join us, leave, or
volunteering culture, we gathered feedback and insights from
return to work after parental leave. In addition to leveraging
our employee volunteering (EV) champions and ran a series of
inputs from these surveys, the Board and Group Management
workshops to develop an EV toolkit accessible to all colleagues.
Team also engage with and listen to the views of colleagues
We are expanding our focus on skills-based volunteering to
through interactive sessions. More information on the Board’s
leverage our colleagues’ skill sets and deepen our community
engagement with the workforce can be found on page 121 in
impact. This year we launched a global skills-based
the Directors’ report.
volunteering week providing learning sessions and volunteering
opportunities to build awareness across the Bank. To drive In 2024, our annual My Voice survey was conducted in May
participation, we organised train-the-trainer workshops to and June. Eighty-seven per cent of our employees (68,590)
equip our colleagues with skills necessary to conduct financial and 36 per cent of eligible agency workers (778) participated.
education and mentoring sessions with our community Key measures of satisfaction have stayed high; however,
stakeholders. In 2024, 53 per cent of colleagues volunteered some have seen a decline year-on-year as the impact of our
including contributing 114,276 hours to skills-based transformation continues to be felt. Overall, the experience of
volunteering. working for the Bank remains a positive one. Eighty-three per
cent of employees say that the Group meets or exceeds their
Their interests expectations, 96 per cent feel committed to doing what is
required to help the Group succeed, and 88 per cent feel
• Access to finance
proud about working for the Group.
• Economic inclusion
• Gender equity
• Skills-based volunteering
• Community impact
38 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 39
Strategic
report
Employees continued
We also continue to be recognised as an employer of We refreshed our toolkits and guidance to people leaders
choice and details of our accolades can be found at and individuals to help navigate flexible working and
sc.com/employer-awards. establish clear, consistent expectations for all colleagues
when working flexibly. These include support on having
All of this underscores the strength of our EVP to attract, retain
regular conversations with teams on flexi-work arrangements;
and grow the skills and talent that are critical to delivering our
on organising team and individual work to enhance
strategy and outcomes for clients.
productivity and wellbeing; on leading in key moments such
as onboarding new team members, returning from parental
Driving a culture of sustainable high performance
leave and during performance conversations; and on
As the Group transforms to achieve our strategic ambitions, strengthening connections in flexible work environments.
we continue to embed our refreshed approach to managing, Colleagues continue to adopt ways of working that balance
recognising and rewarding performance. We are embedding the benefits of remote working with face-to-face interactions
more regular performance and development conversations, to innovate and collaborate as we also continue to
as well as increasing the exchange of two-way balanced, re-imagine our physical workspaces with the relevant
constructive feedback among peers, stakeholders and team infrastructure and technology to provide hubs for teamwork,
members. At the same time, we are encouraging greater collaboration and learning.
aspiration during goal setting as well as placing even more
Read more about our approach to flexible working at
focus on recognising outperformance, including by enhancing
sc.com/flexibleworking
flexibility in reward decisions. These habits, that mark a culture
of high performance, have continued to strengthen each
Early in 2024, we launched Appreciate, our new digital
year. In 2024, 64 per cent of colleagues received feedback in
platform to empower colleagues to give in-the-moment
the system (versus 60 per cent in 2023, 59 per cent in 2022
peer-to-peer recognition. Democratising how colleagues
and 39 per cent in 2021 when our refreshed approach was
celebrate each other’s achievements is reinforcing the
first launched).
importance of two-way feedback as well as recognising
We recognise that wellbeing is a driver of sustainable high the behaviours that drive high performance. Hyper-
performance and productivity, and are committed to personalising how our people feel appreciated in a way
supporting our colleagues’ wellbeing at an individual, team that is most meaningful, to them is also a powerful driver
and organisational level. This means focusing on prevention of employee experience. Across the year, the platform
as well as cure, and striving to embed wellbeing into the flow was used by over 76 per cent of colleagues to share nearly
of work. Globally, colleagues have access to a range of tools 700,000 recognitions with each other.
and resources to manage their wellbeing, including several
progressive benefits, a mental health app, access to 1:1
counselling or therapeutic support, an employee assistance Building leadership capabilities
programme (through which professional counselling is also
Exceptional performance requires exceptional leadership,
available), wellbeing toolkits, and a network of trained mental
and we believe that our people leaders are critical to
health first aiders (to date, nearly 600 colleagues have been
unlocking the potential of our workforce and how they
trained). In 2024, levels of consistent and frequent work-
experience the Bank every day. Engaging, developing and
related stress continued to decrease and colleagues felt more
measuring our people leaders continues to be a critical
comfortable sharing concerns about stress with their people
enabler of our performance and culture. Our leadership
leader. Over three-quarters of our people said they felt able
agreement sets out clear expectations from our leaders to
to choose a reasonable balance between their work and
aspire, inspire and execute. It also forms the foundation of
personal life, and 80 per cent felt they could adjust work
our leadership development curriculum through which
to accommodate personal needs. We continue to drive
one-third of our people leaders are being covered each year
interventions to further enable healthy working practices,
to help them build new skills and habits across different
including market-level experiments that we are running on
leadership stages – including skills on coaching, performance
sustainable working habits, promoting training of wellbeing
management in business-specific contexts, leading for
champions, and embedding wellbeing skills (such as resilience
transformation, and leading through ambiguity. While more
and adaptability) into multiple learning programmes.
than 4,200 leaders learned through face-to-face leadership
Our continued commitment to embedding our flexible programmes during the year, leadership skill building is also
working model (which was launched in 2021) that combines made accessible to all colleagues to build the capability
flexibility in working patterns, time and locations, is an deeper into the organisation. Nearly 28,000 employees have
important part of our efforts to enhance both the productivity now experienced the leadership health journey of regular
and experience of our workforce. Over 76 per cent of micro-learning activities (since launch in 2021), over 700 have
employees in 42 of our markets are now on agreed flexible built skills through our ‘virtual escape room’ game for aspiring
working arrangements, with the majority having signed leaders, and over 5,500 have participated in experiential
up to work from the office for two to three days per week. bootcamps on creating an environment of psychological
Our model purposefully balances client needs and business safety and innovation.
priorities with individual choice, allowing us to be inclusive of
In 2024, 97 per cent of our people leaders received feedback,
the diverse needs of our workforce. We continue to explore
either through our ‘always on’ feedback tool available to all
opportunities for enhancing flexibility across further markets
colleagues or through the structured 360-degree feedback
and roles, where regulations and the nature of the work allow
tool that is available to mid-to-senior people leaders. Leaders
for it.
are also provided a consolidated view of the environment
they are creating for their teams, and feedback on their
leadership skills, as part of their leadership dashboard,
bringing even greater transparency to performance and
development conversations, and highlighting the value we
place on leadership.
Read our Leadership Agreement at sc.com/leadershipagreement
Strategic report Stakeholders
Employees continued
Developing skills of future strategic value
We are investing in developing a workforce that is both
and enabling careers
knowledgeable about and confident in working with
To keep pace with our strategic priorities, evolving customer
Artificial Intelligence (AI). Our AI Learning Hub
expectations, ongoing transformation and rapid technological
democratises AI awareness and knowledge building by
innovation, we stay committed to a skills-led approach.
providing access to all colleagues to immersive learning
We are focused on accelerating the development of future
opportunities, interactive simulations and practical
skills among our workforce, bringing in greater agility to how
case studies, as well as to a range of AI thought leaders,
skills are deployed to areas of opportunity across the Group
experts and enthusiasts. Further, colleagues can now use
and embedding skills purposefully across key talent practices.
GenAI-based assistive writing tools to uplift the quality
We are supporting employees to build the skills needed for
of feedback being shared with team members as well
high performance today, to reskill and upskill for tomorrow,
as peers, including making the feedback more impactful
and to be global citizens who understand the changing
and actionable. They can also use GenAI to improve
nature of the world in which we operate. This includes helping
quality and focus when writing their performance and
them strengthen a combination of human and technical skills,
development goals.
as well as enhancing a culture of continuous learning that
empowers them to grow, increase their long-term employability
and follow their career aspirations.
Creating an inclusive workplace
Building systemic future-focused skills that are anticipated to Our inclusive culture and commitment to diversity and
be needed to keep pace with the changes happening in the inclusion (D&I) are a vital part of our employee value
sector (such as in sustainability, innovation, data, digital and proposition and what enables us to drive business success.
leadership) is balanced with role-focused performance skills; Through our multiple employee listening surveys, and
as well as access to skill-building interventions that enable supplemented by qualitative feedback, we aim to better
role-to-role movement, including into critical future roles understand the lived experiences of our colleagues, and
where our strategic workforce planning analysis predicts an then act to make targeted, meaningful changes to further
increasing need for talent. For example, with our increasing drive inclusion and enhance experience. Our levels of
focus on enhancing our Affluent client proposition in Wealth inclusion remain high and is reflected in the 82.1 per cent
& Retail Banking, we are investing in delivering upskilling, of colleagues who shared positive sentiments in the 2024
reskilling and redeployment journeys for colleagues to enable annual My Voice survey.
them to access opportunities as the business segment grows.
We continue to invest in efforts towards increasing
In Corporate & Investment Banking, we are focusing on
awareness around diversity and inclusion principles,
sustainability capabilities and sales skills in line with our
unconscious bias and micro-behaviours as well as emphasise
cross-border proposition. These efforts aim to ensure that
the importance of creating an inclusive environment.
our workforce transformation is closely linked to our business
Many of these aspects are covered in the ‘When we’re all
growth and transformation.
included’ learning programme which had been completed
Learning in classrooms is combined with learning through our by more than 33,500 colleagues by the end of 2024, as well
online learning platform. Over 71,000 colleagues actively used as the ‘Respect at Work’ e-learning programme that helps
the platform in 2024 and over 31,000 colleagues have used colleagues understand what constitutes harassment, bullying,
one or more of our Future Skills Academies which include the discrimination and victimisation and continues is mandatory
Data & Analytics, Digital, Cyber, Client Advisory, Sustainable for all new joiners.
Finance and Leadership Academies. Through skills passports
We are committed to abiding by the laws in all jurisdictions in
on our AI-enabled internal Talent Marketplace platform,
which we operate, including anti-discrimination laws. We are
employees can sign up for projects (often cross-functional
focused on further strengthening our inclusive culture, where
and cross-location) to build and practise skills on the job, can
all our people feel that their identity is understood and
connect with mentors and access more diverse roles based
recognised for its uniqueness and anyone with the capability
on skills adjacencies. By combining project opportunities with
to excel can do so. Employees are provided, where legally
purposeful internal talent moves, we continue to enhance
permissible, with the ability to share their identity data
the career experience of colleagues. Over 43,000 employees
through our internal employee portal. We are encouraging
are engaging with the Talent Marketplace, with over 2,800
and increasing self-declaration (including socio-economic
projects being assigned (since launch in 2020). Deploying their
status in the UK) so that we can further improve colleague
skills at speed across our network has resulted in unlocking
experience by introducing policies and interventions
over $9.5 million in terms of productivity. We are also making
representative of the needs of our diverse workforce.
it easier for colleagues to engage with all that is available
for growing their careers, through a range of resources and We also remain focused on building a workforce that is truly
tools including a dedicated careers hub, careers toolkits, and representative of our client base and footprint. Our gender
conversation guides. diversity continues to grow, with more women leaders moving
up to senior roles. Women currently represent 42 per cent of
the Board, 14 of our CEOs are women, and representation of
women in senior leadership roles increased to 33.1 per cent
by the end of 2024. We are committed to continuous
improvement in this area and aspire to have 35 per cent
representation1 of women at a global senior level by end of
2025. As of 2024, 33 per cent of our Board identifies as being
from an ethnic minority background, above our aspiration of
1 Subject to local legal requirements
40 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 41
Strategic
report
Employees continued
30 per cent. Further, 21.1 per cent of our Group Management from across the Group. The Council is responsible for our
Team and their direct reports identify as Black, Asian or ethnic overall D&I strategy, direction setting, and overseeing
minority. In the US, Black/African American representation in the implementation of sustainable and measurable
senior leadership is 3.6 per cent and Hispanic/Latin in senior improvements. It is focused on developing a diverse talent
leadership is 10.9 per cent. In the UK, Black representation in pipeline to improve leadership representation, building
senior leadership is 2.5 per cent and ethnic minority in senior sponsorship muscle, fostering positive career progression
leadership is 28.4 per cent. We are currently ahead of our 2025 and refreshing our Employee Resource Group approach to
target in the UK of 20 per cent ethnic minority representation enhance colleague experience.
in senior leadership, and we aim to maintain this level through
Equal Pay is a key principle of our Fair Pay Charter. Our
to 2027. We continue to develop strategic partnerships and
commitment to paying colleagues fairly and recognising skills
experiment with programmes to widen our talent pools such
and contributions rather than any discriminatory factors,
as by providing tools and strategies in career workshops to
fosters an environment where all colleagues are given an
retain, engage and develop all talent, by improving career
equal chance to succeed.
mobility support including through ‘buddy’ assistance, and
by rolling out sponsorship programmes. Read more about our approach towards strengthening
diversity and inclusion, as well as our approach to equal
Leadership commitment remains critical to our approach on
pay and gender and ethnicity pay gap analysis in our
D&I. Our Global D&I Council is chaired by our CEO, Wealth &
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Impact Report 2024 at
Retail Banking and comprises enterprise-wide leaders
sc.com/fairpayreport.
representing various business, functions and geographies
Women representation
Board Management Team and their direct reports
Women Women Women Women
2024 2024
42
%
5 2023 34.1
%
42 2023
Men Men
(2023: 38%) (2023: 36.1%)
7 81
Senior leadership All employees
Women Women Women Women
2024 2024
33.1
%
1,453 2023 45.0
%
36,553 2023
Men Men
(2023: 32.5%) (2023: 44.8%)
2,915 43,665
Undisclosed Undisclosed
17 927
Strategic report Sustainability overview
Sustainability overview
Non-financial and sustainability information statement
We have included within this Annual Report non-financial sustainability-related information which we believe is material based
on the interests of our key stakeholders as described on pages 35-41 and the results of our materiality assessment (page 60).
This table sets out where shareholders and other stakeholders can find information about key non-financial matters in this
report, in compliance with the non-financial reporting requirements contained in sections 414CA and 414CB of the Companies
Act 2006. Further disclosures are available via sc.com/sustainabilitylibrary.
Climate-related information required under sections 414CA and 414CB of the Companies Act 2006 is integrated throughout this
Annual Report. Please refer to the Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) index below.
Where to find more information in this report about our policies
Reporting requirement and impact including risks, due diligence processes and outcomes Page
Description of business model Who we are and what we do 02-03
Our strategy 18
Our business model 19-20
Principal risks and uncertainties Risk review and capital review 193-274
Environmental matters Our operations 77
Our suppliers 78
Our clients 78-98
Employees Employees 38-41
Employee policies and engagement 188-189
Health, safety and wellbeing 189-190
Human rights Suppliers 94
Respecting human rights 94
Social matters Commercial activities 91
Philanthropic activities 91-92
Anti-corruption Code of conduct and ethics 95
and anti-bribery
Fighting financial crime 96
Political donations 190
Non-financial KPIs Supplementary people information 388-392
Supplementary sustainability information 393-395
See the Sustainability Review section from pages 58 to 102 for further information and details
42 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 43
Strategic
report
Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) reporting index
Section TCFD recommendation Page
Governance a) The Board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities
The processes and frequency by which the Board and/or Board committees are informed 98-99
about climate-related issues
How the Board and/or Board committees considers climate-related issues when reviewing 98-99
and guiding strategy, major plans of action, risk management policies, annual budgets, and
business plans
How the Board monitors and oversees progress against goals and targets for addressing 98-99
climate-related issues
b) Management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related risks and opportunities
Assigned climate-related responsibilities to management-level positions and/or committees 98-101
A description of the associated organisational structure 98
The processes by which management is informed about climate-related issues 100
How management (through specific positions and/or management committees) monitors 100
climate-related issues
Strategy a) Climate-related risks and opportunities the Group has identified over the short,
medium and long term
Our short, medium and long-term time horizons that we assess climate-related risks and 89
opportunities over
A description of the specific climate-related issues potentially arising in each time horizon, 256-269
and a description of the processes used to determine which risks and opportunities could
have a material financial impact
• We disclose the identified risks and opportunities for our segments across pages 258-268
• We disclose the identified risks and opportunities for our own operations across pages 264-265
Our climate-related risks and opportunities by geography
• We disclose our Wealth & Retail Banking physical risk exposure across our top 10 markets 258-259
on pages
• We disclose our Wealth & Retail Banking transition risk ratings in relation to our mortgage 259-260
portfolio on pages
• We disclosure our gross physical and transition risk exposure per region on pages 264
• We disclose our significant concentrations of credit exposure to carbon-related assets. 80-88
Refer to our financed emissions reporting for the Group’s exposure in relation to our
12 highest emitting sectors on pages
b) Impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the Group’s businesses, strategy
and financial planning
Impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on:
• Business, strategy and financial planning in products and services 69-73
• Supply chain and value chain 78
• Adaptation and mitigation activities 256-265
• Operations 77, 264-265
How climate-related issues serve as an input to the Group’s financial planning process, 265-269
the time period(s) used, and how these risks and opportunities are prioritised
Impact of climate-related issues on our financial performance 265-269
c) Resilience of the Group’s strategy, taking into consideration different climate-related
scenarios including a two degrees Celsius or lower scenario
Resilience of our strategies to climate-related risks and opportunities, taking into 265-269
consideration a transition to a low-carbon economy consistent with a two degree or lower
scenario. We also disclose:
• Where we believe our strategies may be affected by climate-related risks and
opportunities
• How our strategies might change to address such potential risks and opportunities
• The potential impact of climate-related issues on financial performance
• The climate-related scenarios and associated time horizon(s) considered
For information regarding the scenarios that we have used, the behaviour of identified
risks and opportunities per segment and in our operations across each scenario, and our
assessment of our resilience to these risks, please refer to the ‘Assessing the resilience of
our strategy using scenario analysis’ section.
Strategic report Sustainability overview
Section TCFD recommendation Page
Risk a) Our processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks
Management Our risk management processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks 256-265
• We describe how we identify and assess climate-related risks by segment and in our
operations within the ‘Managing climate risk’ section as well as how we determine the size
and scope of these risks and how they are prioritised.
Existing and emerging regulatory requirements related to climate change that we consider 256
Our processes for assessing the potential size and scope of identified climate-related risks 256-265
b) Our processes for managing climate-related risks
Our processes for managing climate-related risks, including how we make decisions to 256-265
mitigate, transfer, accept, or control those risks
• We describe how we identify and assess climate-related risks by segment and in our
operations within the ‘Managing climate risk’ section, as well as how we determine the size
and scope of these risks and how they are prioritised.
Our processes for prioritising climate-related risks, including how materiality determinations 256-265
are made within the Group
c) How the Group’s processes for identifying, assessing and managing climate-related risks 206
are integrated into the Group’s overall risk management
• While Climate Risk will remain as a cause in the Group’s Risk Taxonomy and manifest
through our businesses and operations, we have formally incorporated Climate Risk into
the ESG Risk Type Framework (RTF).
Metrics and a) The metrics used by the Group to assess climate-related risks and opportunities in line with
Targets our strategy and risk management processes
Our key metrics used to measure and manage climate-related risks and opportunities
• Refer to ‘Sustainability Aspirations: our long-term goals’ for our key opportunity metrics 64
• Refer to Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting within the Directors’ report for our 183-184
Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions metrics, and to ‘Our emissions sources’ for our Scope 3
emissions 258-264
• Refer to ‘Our operations’ for other key metrics identified in relation to our operations
• Refer to ‘Managing climate risk’ section for metrics used to assess physical and transitional
risk exposure in relation to our Wealth & Retail Banking and Corporate & Investment
Banking segments
How we incorporate related performance metrics into our remuneration policies 102, 150, 157, 161
Refer to our ‘Incentive structure’ section and our ‘Directors’ remuneration report’
b) Scope 1, Scope 2, and Scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and the related risks
Refer to ‘Our emissions sources’, ‘Our Operations’ and ‘Our suppliers’ sections for our Scope 1, 2 76-78
and 3 emissions relating to our own operations and supply chain
Refer to ‘Our clients’ section for our Scope 3 financed and facilitated emissions 78-79
c) The targets used by the Group to manage climate-related risks and opportunities and our
performance against targets
• Refer to our ‘Sustainability Aspirations: our long-term goals’ for descriptions of our long- 64-65
term targets and ‘Sustainability Strategic Pillars: our short-term targets and immediate
priorities’ for descriptions of our interim targets
• We have also outlined other climate-related targets in relation to ‘Our operations’ 77
• We describe the methodologies we have used to calculate our targets in relation to 74-76
emissions within our ‘Climate’ section
44 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 45
Strategic
report
Viability statement
The directors are required to issue a viability statement regarding the Group, explaining their
assessment of the prospects of the Group over an appropriate period of time and state whether
they have reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet
its liabilities as they fall due.
The directors are to also disclose the period of time for which This year, the primary focus has been on:
they have made the assessment and the reason they consider
• The effect of increased global trade tensions leading
that period to be appropriate.
to severe economic downturns across Asia and other
In considering the viability of the Group, the directors have regions, coupled with interest rate reductions and lower
assessed the key factors including, but not limited to; inflationary commodity prices.
pressures, spikes in oil prices, disruption to global supply
• The effect of high interest rates and persistent inflation,
chains, depreciation in emerging market currencies, market
including spikes in the oil price, combined with severe
volatility, economic recession, and geopolitical events likely to
market volatility and severe economic downturns in China
affect the Group’s business model and strategic plan, future
and other economies.
performance, capital adequacy, solvency and liquidity taking
into account the emerging risks as well as the principal risks. • The impact of intensifying geopolitical tensions on
economic and financial activity in our footprint
The viability assessment has been made over a period of
markets including an assessment of both financial
three years, which the directors consider appropriate as it is
and operational risks.
within both the Group’s strategic planning horizon and, the
basis upon which its regulatory capital stress tests are • Testing liquidity resilience through multiple severe scenarios
undertaken and is representative of the continuous level of similar to Silicon Valley Bank or Credit Suisse and fully
regulatory change affecting the financial services industry. integrating them in the liquidity risk framework.
The directors will continue to monitor and consider the In 2024, the Group undertook a number of Climate Risk stress
appropriateness of this period. tests, including those mandated by the Hong Kong Monetary
The directors have reviewed the corporate plan, the output of Authority (HKMA) and internal management scenario
the Group’s formalised process of budgeting and strategic analysis. We are also participating in the Monetary Authority
planning. The 2025 Corporate Plan is set against a backdrop of Singapore’s (MAS), Bank Negara Malaysia’s (BNM) and
of significant geopolitical and macroeconomic challenges, in Otoritas Jasa Keuangan’s (OJK) climate stress tests. Results are
particular an uncertain interest rate trajectory. The Corporate expected to be submitted in 2025. For the internal management
Plan is evaluated and approved each year by the Board with scenario analysis, we assessed the resilience of 94 per cent of
confirmation from the Group Chief Risk Officer that the Plan Corporate & Investment Banking (CIB) Exposure at Default
is aligned with the Enterprise Risk Management Framework and expanded our coverage to stress Wealth & Retail Banking
and within Group Risk Appetite Statement and considers the (WRB) portfolios as well, across three external scenarios
Group’s future projections of profitability, cash flows, capital based on Version 3 of the Network for Greening the Financial
requirements and resources, liquidity ratios and other key System (NGFS) and three internal management scenarios.
financial and regulatory ratios over the period. The Corporate The three internal scenarios refer to one bespoke base case
Plan details the Group’s key performance measures, of and a physical and a transition tail risk scenario.
forecast profit, CET 1 capital ratio forecast, return on tangible The loan impairment (LI) intensity which measures the level
equity forecasts, cost to income ratio forecasts and cash of gross expected credit losses against the exposure at
investment projections. The Board has reviewed the ongoing default enables us to assess the relative size of our exposure
performance management process of the Group by comparing subject to potential losses from climate risks. LI intensity is
the reported results to the budgets and corporate plan. not currently material. Overall, we believe that the level of
The Group performs enterprise-wide stress tests using a range potential credit losses can be mitigated by continuing to take
of bespoke hypothetical scenarios that explore the resilience necessary actions, which the Group is already doing across
of the Group to shocks to its balance sheet and business sectors, engaging with our clients on this topic and supporting
model. To assess the Group’s balance sheet vulnerabilities and them in enhancing their climate transition plans.
capital and liquidity adequacy, severe but plausible macro- We examined exposure concentration in key markets subject
financial scenarios explore shocks that trigger one or more of: to the extreme risk of floods and storms to assess the acute
• Global slowdowns including recessions in China, Asian and physical risk, and sea level rise to assess the chronic physical
Western economies that can be acute or more protracted, risk. Stranded assets analysis was conducted for residential
resulting in severe declines in property prices. mortgages to identify properties that are expected to
become uninhabitable and/or unusable due to increased
• Sharp falls in world trade volumes and disruption to global
frequency and intensity of physical risk events from acute
supply chains, including the severe worsening of trade
and chronic risks. In 2024, Climate Risk was also considered as
tensions and rise of protectionism.
part of our formal annual corporate strategy and financial
• Inflationary pressures in the global economy including planning process.
volatility in commodity prices.
Under this range of scenarios, the results of these stress tests
• Significant rises in interest rates and depreciation in demonstrate that the Group has sufficient capital and
emerging market currencies, resulting in heightened liquidity to continue as a going concern and meet regulatory
sovereign risk. minimum capital and liquidity requirements.
• Financial market volatility, including significant moves in
asset prices driven by a combination of macroeconomic
and geopolitical events.
Backing innovative
carbon capture and
storage technology
We supported the UK’s East Coast Cluster, a UK
Government-backed initiative to promote industrial
decarbonisation and carbon capture and storage.
The project aims to capture up to 2 million tonnes
of CO annually while providing up to 742 megawatts
2
of dispatchable, low-carbon energy to the grid.
By helping to finance this project, we’re helping to
facilitate the decarbonisation of hard-to-abate emitters
in the region, in support of the UK’s net zero ambitions.
Learn more sc.com/ecc
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 57
Sustainability
review
Sustainability Review 63 Our approach to sustainability
69 Sustainable finance
74 Climate
90 Nature
91 Social impact
93 Managing Environmental and Social Risk
95 Integrity, conduct and ethics
98 Sustainability governance
SSuussttaaiinnaabbiilliittyy rreevviieeww
Sustainability review
The Sustainability review provides information on the Group’s approach to sustainability, related
governance structures, how we manage environmental, social, and climate risk, and mobilise
sustainable finance to help clients transition and support sustainable, inclusive growth in our markets.
Sustainability is an area of strategic focus for Standard This Sustainability review is designed to address the topics
Chartered which we aim to integrate across our business. that could have a material (positive or negative) impact
As a result, sustainability information can be found on society, nature or the climate, and that are not addressed
throughout this Annual Report and across the suite of elsewhere in the Annual Report. We describe how we have
sustainability-related reports on our website as set out determined these topics under the Materiality heading on
on this page. page 60.
Content map of Annual Report sustainability-related disclosures
Page
Strategic report Who we are and what we do 02-03
Stakeholders 35-41
Non-financial and sustainability information statement 42
Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) reporting index 43-44
Sustainability review Chief Sustainability Officer’s review 62
Our approach to sustainability 63-68
Sustainable finance 69-73
Climate 74-89
Nature 90
Social impact 91-92
Environmental and Social Risk management 93-94
Integrity, conduct and ethics 95-97
Sustainability-related governance 98-102
Directors’ report Corporate governance 113-142
Board engagement with our stakeholders 121-122
Board Culture and Sustainability Committee 134-136
Sustainability in remuneration 150-153
Employee policies and engagement 188-189
Health, safety and wellbeing 189-190
ESG disclosures 183
Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting (SECR) disclosure 183-184
Risk review and Capital review Climate Risk 256-269
Supplementary information
Supplementary people information 388-392
Supplementary sustainability information 393-395
5588 SSttaannddaarrdd CChhaarrtteerreedd –– AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22002244
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 59
Sustainability
review
Our suite of sustainability-related reports and disclosures
Report or disclosure Description
Assurance and verification Independent assurance and verification reports by Ernst & Young LLP (EY), Global Documentation Ltd
reports and EcoAct over certain data points within this Annual Report as detailed on page 61
Code of Conduct and Ethics Primary tool through which we communicate our conduct expectations. It is designed to guide
colleagues through how to live our valued behaviours on a day-to-day basis, whatever their business,
function, region, or role.
Country-by-Country Provides tax information in accordance with the Capital Requirements (Country-by-Country-Reporting)
Disclosure Regulations 2013.
Diversity, Equality and Includes gender and ethnicity pay gap assessment and the actions we have taken to support a culture
Inclusion Impact Report of inclusion.
Equator Principles reporting As a member since 2003, we report on how we apply the principles to ensure that the projects we
finance and advise on are developed in a manner that is socially responsible and reflect sound
environmental management practices.
Environmental and Social Provides an overview of our approach to identifying, assessing, and managing the environmental and
Risk Management social risks associated with our client relationships.
Framework
ESG data pack Supplementary Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) and sustainability data is provided in a
spreadsheet format.
ESG Reporting Index Alignment table referencing our disclosures using voluntary sustainability reporting frameworks:
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board Standards, Global Reporting Initiative Standards and World
Economic Forum (WEF) Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics.
Futuremakers Impact Report Provides progress and outcomes about Futuremakers, our global youth economic empowerment
initiative, tackling inequality and promoting greater economic inclusion.
Modern Slavery Statement Sets out the steps we have taken to assess and manage the risk of modern slavery and human
trafficking in our operations and supply chain.
Net zero methodological Describes our approach to net zero, laying out the methodologies we have used to calculate our
white paper – The journey financed and facilitated emissions, and setting our interim 2030 targets at sector level.
continues
Net Zero Transition Plan Sets out how we aim to deliver on our commitments to reach net zero emissions in our financed
emissions by 2050, and in our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions by 2025.
Policies We publish our main sustainability-related policies, including on: anti-money laundering; anti-bribery
and corruption; digital assets approach; diversity and inclusion; health, safety and security; privacy;
public policy engagement; and Speaking Up.
Position Statements and We use our cross-sector and sector-specific Position Statements and Prohibited Activities list to assess
Prohibited Activities whether to provide financial services to clients.
PRB reporting and self- Our disclosures on actions undertaken related to the six principles as defined by the United Nations
assessment Principles for Responsible Banking (PRB).
Supplier Charter Sets out principles for the behavioural standard that we expect from our suppliers, and those within a
supplier’s sphere of influence that assist them in performing their obligations to us.
Sustainable Finance Impact We present the impact of our sustainable finance assets on a portfolio basis.
Report
Sustainable Finance Our Green and Sustainable Product Framework (GSPF) and Sustainability Bond Framework (SBF) outline
Frameworks our definition of green and sustainable finance. Our Transition Finance Framework (TFF) sets out the
activities and entities that we consider eligible for transition finance.
To access the Group’s suite of sustainability-related reports and disclosures visit sc.com/sustainabilitylibrary
Our approach to sustainability reporting
The Group includes ESG and sustainability information in this Our approach to sustainability reporting will continue to
Annual Report, providing investors and stakeholders with an evolve subject to regulatory and voluntary standards across
understanding of the implications of relevant sustainability- our listing locations and footprint markets. Our disclosures are
related risks and opportunities, and progress against our guided by international standards, frameworks and principles
objectives. We have considered our ESG reporting obligations to the extent relevant to our business. We are actively
under the Hong Kong and FCA UK Listing Rules, please refer preparing for future reporting obligations across the various
to our Directors’ report on page 103 for further information. For jurisdictions in which we operate, including reporting under
our TCFD content table please refer to pages 43 to 44. the International Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB)’s IFRS
S1 General Requirements of Sustainability-related Financial
We have used the GRI Standards to guide our disclosures
Information (IFRS S1) and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures
and have published an ESG Reporting Index with reference
(IFRS S2) and the EU Corporate Sustainability Reporting
to disclosures captured in the GRI Universal and select Topic
Directive (CSRD).
Standards. We have also considered relevant metrics from
sector-specific SASB Standards and WEF Stakeholder
See our ESG Reporting Index at sc.com/sustainabilitylibrary
Capitalism Metrics.
Sustainability review
Materiality
In preparing these disclosures, we have followed the In doing so, we have taken steps to understand the Group’s
materiality assessment process outlined in GRI 3: Material context, identify actual and potential impacts, assess the
Topics 2021, which provides step-by-step guidance for significance of the impacts and prioritise the most significant
organisations on how to determine material topics. impacts for reporting. We have done this by engaging with
Material topics are topics that represent an organisation’s relevant internal and external stakeholders and by validating
most significant impacts on the economy, environment the material topics with experts across the Chief Sustainability
and people, including impacts on their human rights – Office. Our material topics are set out in the table below.
both positive and negative.
Topics Description Learn more
Sustainable finance How we identify opportunities for driving positive Sustainable finance
environmental and social impact by helping
Pages 69-73
our clients address environmental and social
challenges, transition towards low carbon
economies and achieve sustainable growth.
Climate The positive and negative impacts of our financing Climate
activities, direct operations and supply chain on the
Pages 74-89
climate. This includes our emissions, physical and
transition climate risk management, and progress
against our net zero roadmap.
Nature The positive and negative nature-related impacts Nature
of our financing activities, direct operations, and
Page 90
supply chain. This includes our approach and
progress against our nature-related ambitions.
Human capital management The practices used for recruiting, developing and Stakeholders
optimising employee output and relationships,
Pages 38-41
across the value chain. This includes human rights
and modern slavery, health and safety (including Supplementary people
physical and mental wellbeing) and diversity, equity information
and inclusion. Pages 388-392
Society and community relations The positive and negative impacts of our financing Social impact
activities on the societies and communities
Pages 91-92
around us. This includes financial inclusion, job
creation, vulnerable customer protection, and
charitable giving.
Data security and privacy The protection practices over client and personal Risk review and Capital review
information held by the Group.
Page 204
Corporate governance Governance structures and internal control Managing environmental
processes by which the Group is directed. and social risk
Includes risk management, business conduct,
Pages 93-94
anti-bribery and corruption, anti-money laundering,
and whistleblower protection. Integrity, conduct and ethics
Pages 95-97
Sustainability-related
governance
Pages 98-102
To learn more about our materiality process and how we engage with stakeholders visit sc.com/sustainabilitystakeholders
60 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 61
Sustainability
review
Reporting period Independent Limited Assurance
The reporting period for the majority of our operational Ernst & Young LLP (EY) was appointed to provide
environmental performance indicators, including greenhouse independent limited assurance over certain data points
gas (GHG) emissions, waste generation and water within this Annual Report, indicated with a caret symbol (^)
consumption is from 1 October 2023 to 30 September 2024. in this report. The assurance engagement was planned and
This allows sufficient time for independent third-party performed in accordance with the International Standard on
assurance to be completed and for obtaining external third Assurance Engagements (UK) 3000 (July 2020), Assurance
party data where needed prior to the publication of the Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical
Group’s Annual Report. Financial Information (ISAE (UK) 3000 (July 2020)). This
independent assurance report is separate from EY’s audit
This only differs for the following Scope 3 emissions where a
report on the financial statements and is available at
period of 1 January to 31 December with a one to two-year lag
sc.com/sustainabilitylibrary. This report includes further
is used: Category 1: Purchased Goods (other); Category 2:
detail on the scope, respective responsibilities, work
Capital goods; Category 4: Upstream transportation and
performed, limitations and conclusions.
distribution; Category 6: Business travel (miscellaneous other
than air travel) and Category 15: Investments. Emissions data We obtained independent limited assurance on the Group’s
for these categories is disclosed on a one to two-year lag Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions and Scope 3 data centres GHG
with emissions reported in 2024 based on the availability of emissions by Global Documentation Ltd. We also obtained
third-party data and client data. independent verification of the Group’s Scope 3 emissions
associated with business travel (air travel) from EcoAct.
This year, the reporting period for Category 6: Business
These verifications were conducted in accordance with
travel (air travel) has been adjusted from a 1 October 2023
the ISO 14064-3 Greenhouse gases standard and are also
to 30 September 2024 period, to a 1 January 2023 to
available at sc.com/sustainabilitylibrary.
31 December 2023 period, to align these emissions with
those in Category 6: Business travel (miscellaneous other For further details on assurance obtained on comparative
than air travel). prior year data, please refer to the prior year annual report.
With the exception of sustainable finance income, sustainable Read more about the principles and methodology for measuring our
finance metrics are reported at 30 September 2024, allowing environment data at sc.com/environmentcriteria
sufficient time to complete reporting. Sustainable finance For further information on our emissions calculation methodology,
income is reported for the full financial period from 1 January please refer to the Group’s ‘Net zero methodological white paper –
2024 to 31 December 2024. The journey continues’ via sc.com/sustainabilitylibrary
The reporting period for all other sustainability information in
this Annual Report is from 1 January 2024 to 31 December 2024
to align with the calendar year used in financial reporting.
Disclaimer
We report on ESG matters throughout this Annual In this ‘Sustainability review’ chapter, we set out our approach
Report, in particular in the following sections: and progress relating to sustainability and its content is
subject to the statements included in (i) the ‘Forward-looking
(i) S trategic report on pages 35 to 44
statements’ section; and (ii) the ‘Basis of preparation and
(ii) Directors’ report on pages 183 to 184
caution regarding data limitations’ section provided under
(iii) Sustainability review on pages 57 to 102
‘Important notices’ on pages 397 to 398.
(iv) R isk review and Capital review on pages 256 to 269
(v) S upplementary sustainability information on pages 393
to 395 Additional information can be accessed through our suite
of supporting sustainability reports and disclosures via our
website sc.com/sustainabilitylibrary
Sustainability review
Chief Sustainability Officer’s review
“ Accelerating
positive change in
the years ahead”
Marisa Drew
Chief Sustainability Officer
The opportunity to finance the transition to a low carbon Internally, we continue to embed sustainability across our
economy is more compelling and crucial than ever. The organisation by upskilling and empowering colleagues with
commercial case continues to grow, with the green economy user-friendly tools, training and streamlined processes,
delivering total returns of 198 per cent over the past 10 years1. all aimed at facilitating the adoption of sustainability
The scope for further sustainable finance growth is significant opportunities and managing sustainability risks throughout
as new technologies come online and as renewable capacity the Group. While externally, our Innovation Hubs across
growth continues to outpace that of fossil fuels2. Adaptation Finance, Blended Finance Programmes,
Carbon Markets and Nature Finance, continue to pioneer
At the same time, the urgency of the transition remains
novel, high-visibility transactions, investing and supporting
stark and this year we breached the 1.5°C threshold for the
landmark projects that offer significant potential for scale.
first time, making 2024 the warmest year on record. The
disproportionate impact of climate change on those least This year we continued to deliver against our Net Zero
equipped to respond, notably across our markets in Asia, Roadmap, completing our final baseline and target setting
Africa and the Middle East, underscores the importance of for the 12 highest-emitting sectors. But we also recognise
our ongoing commitment to capital mobilisation at scale to that achieving our net zero by 2050 target requires active
deliver the sustainable outcomes we need to see, alongside collaboration and engagement with our clients to support
inclusive growth. and accelerate their transition, and have therefore published
our inaugural Transition Plan alongside this Annual Report.
The Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO) organisation was
established in 2022 to build on the Group’s long-standing This year we also sought to further expand our understanding
sustainability agenda. Since its creation, we have made of our own nature-related risks and opportunities, becoming
substantial progress on our Sustainability Strategic Pillars, an early adopter of the Taskforce on Nature-related Financial
which represent our near-term strategic focus. This includes Disclosures (TNFD). Building on our ambition to shift financial
the work we do to scale sustainable finance, to embed flows towards nature-positive outcomes, Standard Chartered
sustainability across the organisation, deliver against our net also partnered with The Government of The Bahamas, The
zero roadmap, and leverage our thematic Innovation Hubs. Nature Conservancy, the Inter-American Development Bank
(IDB), and other financial partners to launch an innovative
Our sustainable finance income growth speaks to this
debt conversion, expected to generate $124 million for
progress, with $982 million of sustainable finance income
marine conservation.
generated this year, meaning that we are on track to deliver
against our target of at least $1 billion in annual sustainable Looking ahead to 2025, we will no doubt face challenges as
finance income by 2025. As we scale, we continue to diversify the sustainability landscape develops and as we further
our sustainable finance revenue mix by increasing the operationalise our ambitions. However, we’re steadfast in
penetration of our core sustainable finance products across our focus to deliver on our commitments, and our CSO team
markets and expanding our product offering suite. Alongside will continue to serve as a centre of excellence to support the
this, we have now mobilised $121 billion in sustainable finance Group in delivering on our Sustainability agenda, helping our
for our clients from January 2021, against our commitment to clients to transition, and supporting sustainable, inclusive
mobilise $300 billion in sustainable finance by 2030. growth in our markets.
The progress detailed in this report reflects not just our
achievements to date, but our determination to help drive
positive change in the years ahead.
1 ‘Investing in the green economy 2024’, London Stock Exchange Group
2 ‘World Energy Investment 2024’, International Energy Agency
62 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 63
Sustainability
review
Our approach to sustainability
Sustainability is a strategic focus area for us, as we strive to promote inclusive growth
and prosperity across the markets where we operate.
Our approach to sustainability supports the Group’s Sustainability continues to be included in the 2024 Group
strategy, which is designed to deliver our Purpose: to drive scorecard and 2024–26 Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) with
commerce and prosperity through our unique diversity. performance measures that align with our Sustainability
This is underpinned by our brand promise, here for good. Aspirations and Sustainability Strategic Pillars.
Our approach is articulated through our long-term This section sets out progress against our Sustainability
sustainability goals – our Sustainability Aspirations – and Aspirations and Sustainability Strategic Pillars before we dive
our short-term sustainability targets – our Sustainability deeper into the material topics set out on page 60, including
Strategic Pillars. The Aspirations and Pillars set out how sustainable finance, climate, nature and social impact.
we intend to deliver across our Sustainability agenda.
2024 highlights
$121bn Net Zero
Cumulative mobilisation of Interim targets set against our Published our first
sustainable finance from January 12 highest-emitting sectors in line Transition Plan
2021 to September 2024 against with Net Zero Banking Alliance
our commitment to mobilise (NZBA) guidance
$300 billion by 2030
$982m^
Income generated from sustainable Set an absolute facilitated emissions Became early adopters of the
finance in 2024 against our target target for oil and gas, which currently Taskforce on Nature-related
of at least $1 billion annual income makes up the majority of emissions Financial Disclosures (TNFD)
by 2025 within our facilitation portfolio
Values noted with a caret symbol (^) are subject to independent limited assurance by EY. Net zero progress has also been assured.
This can be found on pages 74-89. The assurance report is available at sc.com/sustainabilitylibrary
Sustainability review
Sustainability Aspirations:
our long-term goals
Our Sustainability Aspirations are consolidated into four overarching long-term goals, each
supported by key performance indicators (KPIs). Together, these reflect our commitment to fostering
sustainable social and economic development in our markets.
Sustainability Aspiration Progress to date
Aspiration 1: We believe sustainable finance is essential in addressing the significant $121bn
Mobilise social and environmental challenges faced by our markets. It has the
$300 billion potential to support the needs of businesses, people and communities, by cumulative mobilisation
enabling the transition to low-carbon technologies, accelerating financial
of sustainable of sustainable finance
inclusion, and promoting sustainable, inclusive economic growth.
finance1 from January 2021 to
Our sustainable finance product suite includes bonds, loans, advisory and September 2024 against
trade finance, and is underpinned by our sustainable finance frameworks, our commitment to
which outline how we apply the ‘green’, ‘social’, ‘sustainable’ or ‘transition’ mobilise $300 billion
labels across products and transactions. by 2030
Aspiration 2: We aim to reach net zero in our financed emissions by 2050. The Group has Published our
Operationalise set and disclosed financed emissions reduction targets for 2030 across our
inaugural
our interim 2030 12 highest-emitting sectors, including a facilitated emissions target for oil
financed emissions and gas, which currently makes up the majority of emissions within our Transition Plan
facilitation portfolio.
targets to meet
detailing our approach
our 2050 net zero We also believe that while target-setting is crucial, we need a clear plan to
aiming to achieve net zero
transition our business. This can be found in our 2025 Transition Plan, which
ambition by 2050
outlines a comprehensive framework on how we intend to transition our
business and operations, and collaborate with our clients with the aim to
deliver on our interim 2030 targets and ultimate 2050 net zero ambition. We
recognise the challenges posed by a material portion of our markets that have
yet to commit to net zero by 2050, but we remain focused on driving progress.
Aspiration 3: We continue to utilise our experience and network to actively contribute to Launched the
Enhance and deepen key global partnerships and initiatives that deliver differentiated impact
Guide for
the sustainability and help to mature and advance the sustainability ecosystem. For example,
we continue to maintain guiding roles in the Glasgow Financial Alliance Adaptation and
ecosystem
for Net Zero (GFANZ), the UN Global Alliance of Investors for Sustainable
Resilience Finance
Development (GISD), and the Integrity Council for the Voluntary Carbon
Market (ICVCM), among others.² in partnership with KPMG
Through innovative frameworks and impactful initiatives, we have actively and the United Nations
sought to support global efforts to advance and unlock capital flows towards Office for Disaster Risk
critical areas such as adaptation and resilience, nature, carbon solutions and Reduction (UNDRR)
sustainable finance.
Aspiration 4: We seek to accelerate the mobilisation of both private and philanthropic 20,675
Drive social impact capital to address critical social challenges in our footprint markets.
with our clients and By leveraging our financial expertise, product innovation, and strategic decent jobs enabled and
partnerships, we deliver solutions that meet immediate needs while
communities supported in 20243
empowering communities for sustainable growth.
Through Futuremakers, we establish strategic collaborations with clients,
NGOs and communities to mobilise social capital, create an inclusive
ecosystem to drive inclusive economies and increase equitable prosperity.
For more information, see pages 91-92.
1 We define mobilisation of sustainable finance as any investment or financial service provided to clients that supports: (i) the preservation and/or improvement
of biodiversity, nature or the environment; (ii) the long-term avoidance/decrease of GHG emissions, including the alignment of a client’s business and operations
with a 1.5°C trajectory (known as transition finance); (iii) a social purpose; or (iv) incentivising our clients to meet their own sustainability objectives (known as
sustainability-linked finance). It is a measure of total capital mobilised and considers the total value being committed facilities provided
2 A full list of our memberships can be found at sc.com/sustainabilitystakeholders
3 Decent jobs/employment: comprises formal employment and self-employment. ‘Decent’ aligns with the International Labour Organization (ILO) definition, but in
recognition of the challenges in many markets to satisfy every criteria for ‘decent’, our Futuremakers initiative counts those participants who have met minimum
wage plus at least two additional ILO criteria. The data includes 7,425 young female participants in sustained decent employment, where participants remain in
decent employment six months post intervention, and 13,250 direct jobs enabled to support microbusinesses. This comprises paid employment opportunities
(direct employees, active associates, contractors, support/gig workers, and the entrepreneurs themselves) directly created by the supported microbusinesses.
These may be part-time or full-time, with each job accounted for as a single unit. This KPI is based on actual data collated from project alumni over the seven year
period, estimates based on empirical research, and ex-post project evaluations
For detailed progress against all our Aspiration targets see pages 393-395
64 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 65
Sustainability
review
Sustainability Strategic Pillars: our short-
term targets and immediate priorities
Our four Sustainability Strategic Pillars represent our near-term strategic focus designed to drive
momentum and accelerate progress towards our longer-term Sustainability Aspirations.
Sustainability Pillar Progress to date
Pillar 1: Growth and innovation in our sustainable finance franchise is critical to the $982m^
Scale sustainable delivery of the Group’s Net Zero Roadmap and to support our clients on their
finance income1 own transition journeys. Our sustainable finance teams develop customised sustainable finance
solutions that speak to clients’ needs and ambitions.
income generated in 2024
The Group’s sustainable finance product suite is set out within our GSPF, as against our target of at
described on page 73. Our sustainable finance income target is a CIB target, least $1 billion annual
based on income generated from transactions utilising sustainable finance income by 20252
products for our clients and income generated from clients whose activities
align with those in our Sustainable Finance Frameworks.
Pillar 2: The CSO organisation aims to act as a catalyst for change and a centre of 3,825
Further embed excellence. We foster collaboration internally to embed sustainability across
sustainability across our business operations and functions. We collaborate externally with clients clients evaluated through
and other stakeholders who are aligned with our mission to drive change.
the organisation Climate Risk Assessments,
We aim to create a self-reinforcing cycle, which is built on established and 1,449 client
processes, clear frameworks, engagement with our clients and collaboration Environmental and
across risk and business teams. Our aim is to work with our clients to support Social Risk Assessment
their transition and decarbonisation journeys and where clients evidence reviews completed
transition, help to accelerate progress.
Pillar 3: We aim to reach net zero in our financed emissions by 2050 and in our own
12 out of 12
Deliver on the operations by 2025.
annual milestones We focus on three areas to reduce emissions: our operations, our supply
of the NZBA high-emitting
set forth in our net chain and financed emissions associated with our clients. The majority of our
sectors covered by 2030
zero roadmap GHG emissions are linked to our lending activities. As such, we prioritised our science-based financed
measurement and decarbonisation efforts in the highest-emitting and most
emissions targets
carbon-intensive sectors of our portfolio.
We have now completed our financed emissions target-setting for our
12 highest-emitting sectors. We have further set a facilitated emissions
baseline and target for the oil and gas sector which currently makes up
the majority of emissions within our facilitation portfolio.
Pillar 4: Our four thematic Innovation Hubs – Adaptation Finance, Blended Finance Four
Leverage our Programmes, Carbon Markets and Nature Finance – focus on emerging
Innovation Hubs sustainability themes that are nascent but ripe for scale. The Hubs drive transactions executed
innovation in the market across sustainability.
in 2024 aligned to the
In 2024, we executed on four transactions aligned to the themes of the Hubs. Group’s sustainability
Through our Nature Finance Hub, we executed a debt-for-nature swap themed Innovation Hubs
mandate for The Bahamas, with savings earmarked for conservation.
Our Carbon Hub launched a commercial banking facility to support
forward carbon purchases for British Airways.
1 Values noted with a caret symbol (^) are subject to independent limited assurance by EY. The report is available at sc.com/sustainabilitylibrary
2 Refers to our goal to reach $1 billion in Sustainable finance income by the end of 2025
Sustainability review
Innovation Hubs
Announced in 2023, our four thematic Innovation Hubs – Adaptation Finance1, Blended Finance
Programmes2, Carbon Markets and Nature Finance – focus on emerging sustainability themes
that are nascent but ripe for scale, aligned to areas where the Group has a core competency,
and are particularly suited to clients in our footprint markets.
Each Hub is transversal, run by senior leaders in the CSO organisation, and aims to identify opportunities for future returns
outside of our core range of traditional products and services. By being deliberate in demonstrating leadership to advance
the ecosystem in these emerging thematic areas, the Group expects to be well-positioned to take advantage of the
significant and differentiated revenue potential that will result from maturation of these themes in the future.
Our Innovation Hub model
Adaptation Blended Finance
Finance Programmes
Innovation
Hubs
Carbon Markets Nature Finance
About the Innovation Hubs
1. Adaptation Finance
Context We also completed the Group’s first adaptation finance
Across our markets, there is an urgent need to unlock and scale transaction – an adaptation letter of credit with a parametric
public and private climate adaptation finance to build shared insurance provider, which provided financial protection for
societal resilience. This means embedding adaptation and businesses in the renewable energy sector against extreme
resilience into financial decision-making to manage risks and weather such as changes in river levels and wind levels.
identify new opportunities, which is critical given that every $1 Standard Chartered is also co-chair of the UK Climate Financial
spent on adaptation this decade could generate up to $12 of Risk Forum Adaptation working group. Through this forum and
economic benefit3. others, the Group will continue to engage the financial ecosystem
Adaptation represents both a risk and an opportunity for the to seek opportunities for adaptation and resilience in Asia, Africa
Group, its clients and communities. We are working to identify and the Middle East.
and scale the adaptation finance opportunity across our business Standard Chartered is ranked 1st in Climate X’s ranking of the
and to support the development of adaptation finance across the world’s top 50 banks for climate adaptation4.
wider market.
Progress
For more on Adaptation Finance see our
In 2024, Standard Chartered, KPMG and the UNDRR – with
• Adaptation Economy Report
contributions from more than 30 additional organisations –
sc.com/adaptation-economy
developed and published the Guide for Adaptation and Resilience
• Guide for Adaptation and Resilience Finance via
Finance (The Guide). The Guide now supports the market in sc.com/adaptation-resilience
identifying adaptation opportunities, by setting out eligible
financeable activities and guidance on what constitutes
adaptation and resilience investment, alongside a practical
roadmap for financing and investment opportunities.
1 Adaptation and resilience finance: Adaptation and resilience finance is considered to be any financial service which is provided to an entity to enable adaptation
and enhance resilience to climate and non-climate-related natural hazards within that entity’s assets, operations, customers, supply chain, or the communities in
which they operate
2 Blended Finance is the use of catalytic public (and/or philanthropic) capital to increase private sector investment that supports the SDGs
3 Read our research on the Adaptation Economy sc.com/adaptation-economy
4 Based on 17 indicators as described Climate X’s 2024 white paper ‘Top 50 Banks in the World Tackling Adaptation’
66 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 67
Sustainability
review
2. Blended Finance Programmes
Context Progress
As we move closer to critical 2030 climate and sustainability The Group has sought to establish both partnerships and
targets, the need for blended finance to fill financing gaps platforms throughout the year. We continue our participation,
becomes even more pressing. However, blended finance deals as a signatory, in the Just Energy Transition Partnerships (JETPs)
largely continue to be ‘bespoke’ to each situation, which limits in Indonesia and Vietnam, working with our clients to translate
their scalability. political investment plans into project financing.
Standard Chartered is already recognised by Convergence (the In addition, at COP29 this year, the Kingdom of Lesotho
global network for blended finance) as among the most active announced its intention to appoint Standard Chartered and
commercial banks in the blended finance space, and we are well Standard Bank South Africa as joint financial advisers, during the
positioned to play a leadership role in this area given our footprint launch of the His Majesty King Letsie III Just Energy Transition Fund
across Asia, Africa and the Middle East. (HMKLIII JET Fund). The HMKLIII JET Fund aims to build a new era
We are working to address the issue of scalability by identifying, of energy independence and export in Lesotho: fulfilling Lesotho’s
creating and implementing blended finance through a more domestic demand through building both local supply and
programmatic approach: working through partnerships with surplus generation for export to neighbouring Southern Africa.
Development Finance Institutions (DFIs) and Multilateral The HMKLIII JET Fund seeks to bring private investment to
Development Banks (MDBs) as well as within country platforms. Lesotho through the country platform approach.
We describe this approach more fully in our article ‘Country Standard Chartered is also a founding participant in the
Platforms: A programmatic approach to blended finance’1. Bangladesh Climate and Development Platform, a country
platform to leverage adaptation and mitigation investments.
The country platform concept was first advanced by the World
Bank in 2017, moving beyond just single projects, and is designed
to foster collaboration among development partners based on
a shared vision.
We also contributed to a number of global initiatives (e.g. within
GFANZ and WEF) to help drive thought leadership around
blended finance.
3. Carbon Markets
Context Progress
Effective carbon markets are critical to global efforts to mitigate In 2024, we bolstered our support of carbon market development
climate change and to finance sustainable development. to provide innovative carbon financing solutions. Standard
This was stressed by the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Chartered partnered with British Airways, CFC Insurance, Cur8,
Change in its April 2022 report on mitigating climate change, Willis Towers Watson, and UNDO to pilot an innovative bank
which noted that “the deployment of carbon dioxide markets to loan against a carbon removal credits offtake contract. The
counterbalance hard-to-abate residual emissions is unavoidable transaction featured a purpose-built carbon insurance policy,
if net zero emissions are to be achieved”. allowing for the upfront monetisation of an existing long-term
Carbon markets put a price on carbon emissions, can be carbon offtake agreement.
complementary to credible net zero transition plans, and help to We have been working on broadening our financing capabilities
channel climate finance where it’s needed, most critically across to be able to apply similar solutions to other carbon project types
our markets. A high-integrity carbon market, combined with and to support additional sources of debt such as outcome bonds
corporate commitments to cut emissions and high standards of and securitisation of carbon portfolios.
reporting can accelerate the global progress towards net zero We continue to support the ICVCM review process for both carbon
by 2050, while supporting sustainable development globally. standards and methodologies and, in the past year, have been
The Group has been a firm advocate of carbon market involved in some of the largest carbon market transactions,
standardisation and has been at the forefront of several initiatives including acting as a supplier for the Regional Voluntary Carbon
that are working to ensure that high-integrity, scalable carbon Market Company and Climate Impact X’s respective carbon
markets develop. We offer trading, advisory, financing and risk credit auctions.
management services to our clients around the world and
continue to develop our suite of banking solutions as carbon
markets grow and mature.
1 Available at sc.com/delivering-blended-finance
Sustainability review
4. Nature Finance
Context Progress
It is estimated that over half of global GDP is moderately or highly Standard Chartered has partnered with The Government of
dependent upon nature. The 2019 Global Assessment Report from The Bahamas, The Nature Conservancy, IDB, and other financial
the Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and partners to launch an innovative debt conversion for nature
Ecosystem Services highlighted how biodiversity loss undermines and climate, which aims to help the country improve ocean
livelihoods, food security, economies and health, while also conservation and management.
threatening the resilience of our planet to climate change. We have also expanded the Group’s GSPF in 2024 to include
Despite its importance, nature is rapidly declining. An estimated additional nature-related activities informed by the GBF. Namely,
25 per cent of plants and animals are threatened with extinction, under the GSPF ‘Sustainable management of living and natural
amid a 47 per cent decline in natural ecosystem extent and resources’ category, we have expanded the criteria to include a
condition relative to earliest estimated states.1 Protecting nature multitude of activities that contribute to ecosystem and nature
is essential to limiting anthropogenic global warming and conservation, including but not limited to: investment in restoration
mitigating its impacts so that the planet can sustain all livelihoods of degraded areas; in-situ conservation activities around
and support inclusive sustainable economic development. sustainable tourism areas, and investment in activities that
Having applied international environmental and social standards mitigate the impact of invasive alien species. Within the ‘Pollution
in our financing for more than 20 years, our presence in markets prevention and control’ GSPF category, we have also recognised
with some of the richest, remaining biodiversity in the world activities that contribute to soil remediation, and waste prevention
positions us to engage with a range of key stakeholders. or reduction. Through our nature risk working group we are
We are guided by our commercial ambition to increasingly shift advancing our nature risk analysis by leveraging our climate risk
financial flows towards nature-positive outcomes by aligning data capabilities to support more in-depth analysis of potential
and contributing to the targets of the Global Biodiversity material sectors and sites, and assess our financial exposure to
direct and indirect pressures and dependencies on nature.
Framework (GBF).
To amplify Standard Chartered’s thought leadership in the nature
sphere, we co-authored the Group’s latest sustainability research
‘Towards a sustainable ocean: where there’s a will, there’s a wave’2
published in November 2024, highlighting opportunities for
financing the nature-positive transition of the blue economy.
For more on progress made towards nature see page 90
Debt conversion for nature for The Bahamas
Standard Chartered acted as the sole lender in this The Bahamas debt conversion project thus not only helps
transaction, underwriting a new $300 million loan. The loan to free up fiscal space by reducing debt service payments,
was backed by guarantees from IDB, Builders Vision (an but also helps to support sovereign sustainable
impact platform founded by Lukas Walton) and AXA XL development priorities – conserving and managing marine
(a specialist insurer). The Nature Conservancy was areas to provide the critical habitats for diverse species,
responsible for mobilising the guarantee package for the protect coasts from storms and sustain local livelihoods.
transaction and will also provide long-term conservation
The project is also one of many firsts:
support to The Bahamas Government.
• Our first debt conversion for nature.
Through the new loan, The Bahamas bought back
$300 million of its external commercial debt, generating • First time a family office has provided a meaningful
$124 million in savings which will be dedicated to marine component of the credit enhancement package, with
conservation in The Bahamas. The debt savings will Builders Vision providing a $70 million co-guarantee.
support The Bahamas to effectively manage its unique • First time a private insurer has provided credit insurance
system of almost 6.8 million hectares of Marine alongside a Multilateral Development Bank in support
Protected Areas (MPAs), complete a national Mangrove of a sustainable issuance for nature and climate, with
Management Plan and develop and implement a Marine AXA XL providing $30 million in credit insurance.
Spatial Plan aimed at addressing increased demands for • First time that climate-smart MPA commitments –
the use of The Bahamas’ ocean through a transparent, which include considerations for managing potential
participatory, and science-based process. climate change impacts – are explicitly included in
conservation outcomes to support climate mitigation
and adaptation goals.
More information about the debt conversion for nature
for the Bahamas is available at sc.com/debt-conversion
1 IPBES (2019) Global Assessment Report on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services
2 Read our blue economy research paper ‘Towards a sustainable ocean: where there’s a will, there’s a wave’ at sc.com/blue-economy
68 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 69
Sustainability
review
Sustainable finance
Sustainable finance, including transition finance, is a crucial part of our sustainability strategy
and is therefore reflected in both our long-term Sustainability Aspirations and short-term
Sustainability Strategic Pillars.
Our broad sustainable finance product suite, which includes Our aspiration is to mobilise $300 billion
bonds, loans, advisory and trade finance, is underpinned by of sustainable finance.
our sustainable finance frameworks (described on page 73) We have mobilised $121 billion of sustainable finance
that outline how we apply the ‘green’, ‘social’, ‘sustainable’ or from January 2021 through to September 2024 against
‘transition’ labels across products and transactions. We also our commitment to mobilise $300 billion by 2030.
work with retail and wealth clients to mobilise diverse sources
of capital in support of social and environmental outcomes.
Sustainable finance mobilised1
Cumulative progress
Oct 2023 – Sep 2024¹¹ Jan 2021 – Sep 2023 Jan 2021 – Sep 2024
Product $m $m $m
Use of proceeds2,3 7,510 18,989 26,499
Sustainability-linked loans (SLLs)3,4 9,529 28,638 38,167
Transition finance3,5 1,023 762 1,785
SME lending3,6 1,342 2,853 4,195
Microfinance3,6 752 1,940 2,692
Green mortgages3,7 245 4,822 5,067
Mergers and acquisitions (M&A)/Advisory8 2,926 5,786 8,712
Green and social bonds facilitated9 10,220 23,423 33,643
Total sustainable finance mobilised10 33,547^ 87,213 120,760
Of the above
Corporate &Investment Banking (CIB) 31,960 79,539 111,499
Wealth & Retail Banking (WRB) 1,587 7,674 9,261
Total sustainable finance mobilised10 33,547^ 87,213 120,760
1 We define mobilisation of sustainable finance as any investment or financial service provided to clients that supports: (i) the preservation and/or improvement of
biodiversity, nature or the environment; (ii) the long-term avoidance/decrease of GHG emissions, including the alignment of a client’s business and operations
with a 1.5°C trajectory (known as transition finance); (iii) a social purpose; or (iv) incentivising our clients to meet their own sustainability objectives (known as
sustainability-linked finance). It is a measure of total capital mobilised and considers the total value being committed facilities provided
2 Mobilisation amounts include transactions with restricted use of the financing proceeds that align to our GSPF. Use of proceeds lending transactions are measured
as the loan commitment/underwritten amount provided to the counterparty. Use of proceeds transactions to the value of $538 million have been reclassified as
SLLs in the 2023 year due to transaction tagging refinement
3 Lending transactions are measured as the loan commitment/underwritten amount provided to the counterparty
4 SLLs refer to any type of loan instrument for which the economic characteristics can vary depending on whether the counterparty achieves ambitious, material
and quantifiable predetermined sustainability performance targets (SPTs). The use of proceeds in relation to an SLL is not a determinant in its categorisation and,
in most instances, SLLs will be used for general corporate purposes. SLLs are not issued in line with the Group’s GSPF but are subject to other internal guidance
documentation, based on the Sustainability Linked Loan Principles
5 Transition finance includes any financial service provided to clients to support them to align their business and/or operations with a 1.5°C trajectory issued in line
with our TFF, this is measured on a committed facility provided basis
6 SME and Microfinance lending is the provision of finance to developed but not high-income countries as per the United Nations World Economic Situation and
Prospects (UN WESP) report. The inclusion of SME lending is linked to the ‘Access to Finance’ sub-theme within the Group’s GSPF incorporating employment
generation, and programmes designed to prevent and/or alleviate unemployment, including through the potential effect of small and medium enterprise (SME)
financing and microfinance. SME mobilisation is the lending facilities provided to small companies and renewed when the facilities renew. Microfinance
mobilisation is measured as the cash disbursed
7 Green Mortgages are loans issued by our Wealth & Retail Banking business (WRB) where the underlying property meets a specific energy rating. Mobilisation is
measured as the cash disbursed to lenders. Value mobilised in 2021 includes mortgages originated before 2021 but identified as Green in 2021
8 M&A/Advisory represents where the Group is the financial advisor to a transaction which has been tagged as sustainable in line with the Group’s GSPF or TFF.
The amount attributed to M&A/Advisory mobilisation is proportional and represents the total deal size divided by the number of financial advisers on the deal
9 Capital market bonds are measured by the proportional bookrunner share of facilitated activities as determined by third-party league table rankings based on
the level of services provided
10 Values noted with a caret symbol (^) are subject to independent limited assurance by EY. The report is available at sc.com/sustainabilitylibrary
11 Some transactions included in 2024 reporting related to deals that were signed during prior years but which only received approval for sustainable finance tagging
during 2024
Sustainability review
Scaling sustainable finance income In 2024, we continued to develop our sustainable finance
Our sustainable finance franchise supports clients on their product suite, with over 40 product variants as set out in
transition and broader sustainability journeys by developing our GSPF. Co-developed with Morningstar Sustainalytics, a
customised solutions that speak to their needs and ambitions. globally recognised provider of ESG research, ratings and
The franchise generated over $982 million between January data, our framework is reviewed annually to reflect changes
and December 2024 putting us within reach of our target of in market trends and industry standards.
at least $1 billion annual income by 2025. This represents over Our pureplay clients are also key to achieving our sustainable
8.3 per cent of our total Corporate & Investment Banking finance goals. These are companies whose activities align
income in 2024, a year-on-year growth rate of 36 per cent. with those in our GSPF or in our TFF. Their significance lies in
As a UK-headquartered international bank we work to deploy their ability to deliver credible and robust impact, driven by
capital across our global markets. As can be seen on the the inherent green and socially sustainable nature of their
following pages and in our 2024 Sustainable Finance Impact business models and operations, or their critical role in
Report, we have raised $7.9 billion of sustainable liabilities supporting and/or enabling the transition.
across our markets, while 78 per cent of our $23.3 billion Our sustainable finance income1 includes client income
sustainable finance asset base is located in Asia, Africa and generated from our sustainable finance product suite net
the Middle East. of funding costs, as well as from clients recognised as green,
social, sustainable or transition pureplays.
Read more in our Sustainable Finance Impact Report at
sc.com/sfimpactreport
Sustainable finance income2
20243 2023 YOY
Product $m $m %
Transaction services 319 202 58
Payments & Liquidity 187 103 82
Securities & Prime Services 4 – 400
Trade & Working Capital 128 99 29
Banking 552 427 29
Lending and financing solutions 507 386 31
Capital market and advisory 45 41 10
Markets 111 91 22
Macro Trading 101 76 33
Credit Trading 10 15 (33)
Total sustainable finance income by product 982^ 720 36
Our target to generate
at least $1 billion annual
sustainable finance
income by 2025
We generated $982 million^ of sustainable
finance income in 2024, putting us within reach
of our target.
1 For derivative transactions included within our sustainable finance income, these reflect the client income related to transactions, which includes margins charged
in excess of hedging costs
2 Values noted with a caret symbol (^) are subject to independent limited assurance by EY. The report is available at sc.com/sustainabilitylibrary
3 Product allocations have changed to align to the new business structure within CIB
70 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 71
Sustainability
review
Sustainable finance assets and sustainability-linked assets
Our sustainable finance assets reflect the assets on our balance sheet generated as a result of this green, social and sustainable
financing activity, and it is against these assets that we raise sustainable liabilities. Transition assets are not included within this
asset base.
The Group’s sustainable finance asset base increased by 32 per cent to $23.3 billion between October 2023 and September
2024. The majority of our sustainable finance asset base ($17.4 billion of the $23.3 billion) is made up of financing to green
projects such as renewable energy projects, green real estate and funding for the development of electric rail projects.
Our social finance assets make up $5.5 billion of the total sustainable finance asset pool and encompass categories such as
healthcare, education and access to finance in developing markets. The remaining assets ($0.4 billion of the $23.3 billion)
span across both green and social categories, including renewable energy, sustainable water and wastewater management,
access to essential services and food security.
Green finance assets1,2
Sept 2024 Sept 2023
Theme $m $m SDGs
Clean transportation 1,929 901
Electric vehicles (EVs) 710 197
EV battery manufacturers 622 372
Manufacturing of specialised component parts of EVs 147 112
Rail 450 220
Climate change adaptation 3 4
Energy efficiency 141 482
LED lighting 92 7
Modernisation of broadband network 46 475
Smart meters 3 –
Eco-efficient products 37 –
Green buildings 8,816 8,742
Green buildings 5,554 5,066
Mortgage portfolio Hong Kong 3,225 3,657
Mortgage portfolio Singapore 16 –
Mortgage portfolio Taiwan 20 19
Mortgage portfolio Vietnam 1 –
Pollution prevention and control 157 14
Portfolio of green projects 436 351 Multiple
Renewable energy 5,498 3,100
Transmission lines 174 102
Hybrid wind and solar 528 38
Hydropower 24 32
Manufacture of components for renewable energy technology 954 457
Solar 1,618 940
Waste to energy 239 166
Wind 1,534 1,178
Energy storage 130 68
Green hydrogen 19 9
Mixed renewables 278 110
Sustainable management of living and natural resources 249 –
Sustainable water and wastewater management 127 –
Total green assets 17,393 13,594
Portfolio of green and social projects³ 392 473 Multiple
1 Amounts included in the table are as of September 2024 and September 2023 and are aligned to the Group’s Sustainable Finance Impact Report available at
sc.com/sfimpactreport. September 2024 and September 2023 figures have been prepared on the same basis as the Impact Report
2 Values noted with a caret symbol (^) are subject to independent limited assurance by EY. The report is available at sc.com/sustainabilitylibrary
3 The underlying assets could potentially span across various categories, including renewable energy, sustainable water and wastewater management, access to
essential services and food security. These assets, while included in the overall totals, remain unidentified in terms of specific green and social classification until
allocation reports are received
Sustainability review
Social finance assets1,2
Sept 2024 Sept 2023
$m $m SDGs
Access to water 121 72
Access to essential services 338 145
Education infrastructure – universities 6 6
Healthcare infrastructure – hospitals 230 131
Provision of supporting healthcare-related products and services 95 8
Education loans 7 -
Road infrastructure 120 46
Access to finance 4,050 3,062
SME lending 3,467 2,506
Microfinance 583 555
Affordable basic infrastructure 879 198
Sewage treatment – 1
Telecommunications/Internet connectivity 879 197
Food security 14 22
Portfolio of social projects 25 –
Total social assets 5,547 3,545
Total green and social finance assets 23,332^ 17,612
Sustainability-linked assets¹
Sept 2024 Sept 2023
$m $m
Total sustainability-linked loans 6,619 4,805
Total sustainability-linked assets 6,619 4,805
Total green and social finance and sustainability-linked assets1,3
Sept 2024 Sept 2023
$m $m
Corporate & Investment Banking 24,098 17,103
Wealth & Retail Banking 5,853 5,314
Sustainable liabilities1,2
Sept 2024 Sept 2023
Theme $m $m
Total bond issuances 2,126 2,353
of which sustainable structured notes 950 795
of which green structured notes 60 –
Total sustainable term deposits 3,325 4,554
Total sustainable term accounts 1,214 1,027
Total sustainable retail current and savings accounts and deposits 1,196 513
Total sustainable liabilities 7,861^ 8,447
1 Amounts included in the table are as of September 2024 and September 2023 and are aligned to the Group’s Sustainable Finance Impact Report available at
sc.com/sfimpactreport. September 2024 and September 2023 figures have been prepared on the same basis as the Impact Report
2 Values noted with a caret symbol (^) are subject to independent limited assurance by EY. The report is available at sc.com/sustainabilitylibrary
3 The underlying assets could potentially span across various categories, including renewable energy, sustainable water and wastewater management, access to
essential services and food security. These assets, while included in the overall totals, remain unidentified in terms of specific green and social classification until
allocation reports are received
See sc.com/sfimpactreport for more highlights on our Sustainable Finance assets in 2024, including asset locations
Wealth & Retail Banking sustainable investing
The Group had $1.3 billion sustainable investing (SI) assets under management (AUM) at 31 December 2024 (a 30 per cent
increase from $1.0 billion at 31 December 2023).
Following a review of our methodology, we have refined our definition of SI AUM this year to only include products that the
Group actively advises on. This includes funds and structure products, and excludes bonds and equities.
For further information on our Sustainable Investments universe, refer to sc.com/sustainable-investing
72 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 73
Sustainability
review
Our Sustainable Finance Frameworks
INTERNAL INTERNAL
Standard Chartered 1
Green and Sustainable Sustainability T 2 r 0 a 2 n 4 sition Finance Framework
Bond Framework
Product Framework 2024
Version 6.0 December 2024
Green and Sustainability Transition
Sustainable Product Bond Framework Finance Framework
Framework
Our GSPF governs the activities Our SBF provides the basis for Our TFF sets out the assets and
that we as an organisation classify the issuance of green, social and activities that qualify under a
as ‘green’, ‘social’ and ‘sustainable’. sustainability bonds and notes, ‘transition’ label.
drawing on the activities that
It sets out our approach to We have outlined our approach to
we view as ‘green’, ‘social’ and
mitigating greenwashing risk defining and governing transition
‘sustainable’.
across our product suite and finance in our TFF. This framework
defines the themes and activities It governs our sustainable debt is informed by the 2023
that we consider eligible for green, products issued by the Group, International Energy Agency (IEA)
social and sustainable financing. providing transparency and Net Zero Emissions (NZE) 2050
The Framework is informed by guidance on the use of proceeds, scenario and is reviewed annually
international market guidelines process for project evaluation for alignment with the latest
and standards on green and and selection, management available science and industry
sustainable finance, including of proceeds and reporting, standards. This year we published
among others, the Climate Bonds as aligned with the ICMA the third iteration of the TFF.
Standard, EU Taxonomy for Sustainability Bond Principles.
sustainable activities and the It has received a Second Party
Green Loan Principles. Co- Opinion from Morningstar
developed with Morningstar Sustainalytics, which confirms
Sustainalytics, our Framework is our Framework is credible,
reviewed annually with the aim to impactful and aligns with
ensure it remains in line with the industry guidelines.
latest industry standards.
Governance over sustainable finance products and frameworks
The Group has Product Programme Guidance documents in place, which underpin each Sustainable Finance product that we
offer, signed off by a delegate of the Sustainable Finance Governance Committee (SFGC) following approval of the product
construct by the SFGC.
The SFGC is our forum for reviewing Sustainable Finance products and frameworks, and derives its authority from the Group
Responsibility and Reputational Risk Committee (GRRRC). The GRRRC is the ultimate approval body for all of our Sustainable
Finance Frameworks. Its membership is drawn from the CSO organisation, Legal, Compliance, and ESG and Reputational Risk.
The SFGC is our foremost committee for managing greenwashing risk in sustainable finance product design and labelling.
For more, visit sc.com/sustainabilitylibrary
For more information on our Green and Sustainable Product Framework please visit sc.com/gspf
For more information on our Sustainability Bond Framework please visit sc.com/sustainability-bond-framework
For more information on our Transition Finance Framework please visit sc.com/transition-finance-framework
Sustainability review
Climate
We aim to reach net zero in our financed emissions by 2050 and in our Scope 1 and Scope 2
emissions by 2025. Our net zero roadmap sets out the key steps we need to take to achieve
this goal, and thus far we have made good progress achieving the goals we set for 2024.
Our global footprint informs our unique understanding of the The Group also made progress on our target-setting coverage
complexity associated with reaching our targets across our for financed emissions, setting a baseline and target on our
financed and facilitated emissions, including a heightened agriculture portfolio. Reporting also resumed for our aviation
focus on the security and resilience of our markets as they business sector following the sale of the Group’s global aircraft
respond to greater climate change induced uncertainty. finance leasing business and majority of lending portfolio in
As a financial institution, the Group has an important role to 2023. As a result, the Group has now formally completed
play in supporting our clients and markets as they navigate target-setting for our twelve highest-emitting sectors.
this complexity, while driving and encouraging change in the
In 2023, the Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials
real-world economy.
(PCAF) released its facilitated emissions methodology.1
Published this year, the Group’s inaugural Transition Plan Following this, we continued to work on target-setting for
outlines our approach to deliver this change and aim to the capital market issuances on which we assist our clients.
achieve net zero by 2050, demonstrating to clients, suppliers,
The Group has also now set a facilitated emissions target for
customers, and other key stakeholders that we have a
the oil and gas sector which currently makes up the majority
clear plan to deliver on the commitments we have made.
of emissions within our facilitation portfolio. Facilitated
The Transition Plan consolidates and expands upon the
emissions refers to the emissions charge the Group incurs for
disclosures provided in this Annual Report, the Net Zero
providing the service of facilitating the issuance of a debt
Roadmap and Net Zero Methodological White Paper.
capital markets bond for an oil and gas client. This charge is
The Transition Plan has been developed considering incurred regardless of whether the Group holds any portion
guidelines provided by the Transition Plan Taskforce and of the bond or not.
GFANZ frameworks.
For information about our approach to climate governance,
refer to pages 98-102
Download our Transition Plan and ‘Net Zero Methodological White
Paper – The journey continues’ from sc.com/sustainabilitylibrary
The Transition Plan sets out:
• Our current practices: The evolving business practices
that underpin our commitment to net zero.
• Control environment: The governance framework and
description of controls over our net zero calculations,
target management, client engagement, and
decision-making processes, designed to maintain
oversight, accountability, and alignment with the
Group’s net zero objectives.
• Embedding net zero: The measures and initiatives
undertaken to integrate net zero considerations
into the client lifecycle. How we are systematically
integrating and operationalising sustainability into
client engagement strategies, with the aim to drive
measurable outcomes.
1 ‘The Global GHG Accounting & Reporting Standard (Part B): Facilitated Emissions’, Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials, December 2023
74 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Our net zero roadmap
We aim to reach net zero emissions in our financed emissions by 2050 and in our Scope 1
and Scope 2 emissions by 2025.
To help us remain on track, we have set short- and medium-term objectives and quantifiable targets
to manage and report on our progress on an annual basis. We have now set interim 2030 targets for all the
highest-emitting sectors in the Group’s portfolio.
2021
Launched our roadmap to net zero by 2050, including •
interim targets and a supporting methodology
Announced plans to mobilise $300 billion in sustainable •
finance by 2030 2022
Published our inaugural TFF •
• Developed financed emissions baselines and 2030
targets for the aviation, shipping and automotive
manufacturers sectors
• Joined PCAF
2023
Announced our enhanced oil and gas absolute •
financed emissions target
Updated our power and steel sector baselines and • 2024
targets moving from a revenue-based intensity metric to
a production-based intensity metric • Measured and disclosed an agriculture baseline
Developed financed emissions baselines and set interim • and target, the final high emitting sector
2030 targets for four additional sectors: cement, recommended by the NZBA
aluminium, residential mortgages and commercial real • Resumed aviation sector reporting following the sale
estate, bringing the total number of science-based of the Group’s aircraft leasing business and a
targets set for high-emitting sectors to 11 significant portion of the lending portfolio
Financed emissions baselines and sectoral progress • • Set a baseline and target for our facilitated emissions
against targets, where indicated, assured for the first portfolio focusing on the oil and gas sector which
time by Ernst & Young currently makes up the majority of emissions within
our facilitation portfolio
Calculated the Group’s facilitated emissions from debt •
capital markets following the final PCAF guidance • Issued the Group’s first Transition Plan set out with
(published in December 2023) under both the 33 per reference to the Transition Plan Taskforce and GFANZ
cent and 100 per cent weighting factors guidance
Published the Group’s updated Net Zero Methodological •
White Paper – The journey continues
2025
• Aim to be net zero in our Scope 1 and 2 emissions
• Set a methane reduction target
2030
We will have substantially reduced our •
exposure to the thermal coal mining sector in
line with our Position Statements
2032
Aim to meet the Group’s financed and •
facilitated emissions interim targets set for
• Targeted end date for legacy direct thermal
high-emitting sectors
coal mining financing globally in line with our
Position Statements
2050
Aim to become net zero in our financed emissions
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 75
Sustainability
review
Sustainability review
Our emission sources
We aim to reach net zero emissions in our financed emissions by 2050 and in our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions by 2025.
We focus on three areas to reduce emissions:
Topics Size of emissions (%) Emissions sources Learn more
Our 0.1 Scope 1 and Scope 2:
operations Emissions from the combustion of fuels in owned or controlled
Page 77
sources e.g. boilers, generators and vehicles, refrigeration and air
conditioning equipment and the purchase of electricity
Our supply 1.5 Scope 3 Categories 1-14:
chain Emissions from our upstream and downstream supply and value
Page 78
chain
Our clients 98.4 Scope 3 Category 15:
Emissions from transacting with our clients
Page 78
The following tables summarise our most recent performance:
2024 2023 2022
Scope 1 and 2 emissions (tCOe) (tCOe) (tCOe)
2 2 2
Scope 1 emissions1, 3 7,696 8,488 2,071
Scope 2 emissions2, 3 17,272 26,246 47,363
Total Scope 1 and 2 emissions 24,968 34,734 49,434
2024 2023 2022
Scope 3 supply chain emissions⁴: (tCOe) (tCOe) (tCOe)
2 2 2
Category 1: Purchased goods and services (other)5 345,193 346,819 380,732
Category 1: Purchased goods and services (data centres)3 4,186 4,431 7,060
Category 2: Capital goods 43,716 42,707 34,496
Category 4: Upstream transportation and distribution 27,268 24,125 20,300
Category 5: Waste generated in operations 379 520 747
Category 6: Business travel (air travel)6 53,326 48,046 39,107
Category 6: Business travel (miscellaneous other than air travel) 16,420 8,918 2,654
Category 7: Employee commuting7 81,065 71,228 61,917
Category 13: Downstream leased assets (real estate) 7,119 7,898 8,594
Total Scope 3 supply chain emissions 578,672 554,692 555,607
2024 2023 2022
Scope 3 Category 15: Investments8 (tCOe) (tCOe) (tCOe)
2 2 2
Financed emissions⁹ 36,410,000 42,330,000 49,872,000
Facilitated emissions 1,761,000 3,007,000 4,025,000
Total Scope 3 Category 15 emissions⁹ 38,171,000 45,337,000 53,897,000
Agriculture sector Scope 3 emissions¹⁰ 10,300,000 – –
1 As we aim to improve our emissions measurement and reporting year-on-year, we have included leased vehicle fleet emissions in our Scope 1 data in 2024
(1,340 tCOe) and fugitive emissions since 2023 (3,877 tCOe in 2024 and 5,266 tCOe in 2023). 2022 data was not available for fugitive emissions
2 2 2
2 Scope 2 indirect emissions have been calculated using the market-based approach as set out in the GHG protocol
3 Our Scope 1 and 2 emissions and Scope 3 Category 1: Purchased goods and services (data centres) emissions calculations for the most recent reporting year were
independently assured by Global Documentation Ltd. The assurance scope in 2024 now includes the leased vehicle fleet and fugitive emissions
4 Scope 3 Category 3, Category 8, Category 9, Category 10, Category 11, Category 12 and Category 14 are not relevant for the Group due to the nature of our business,
products and services and operations. GHG emissions associated with these categories are not deemed as relevant and/or material
5 We have restated our Scope 3 Category 1: Purchased goods and services emissions data for the 2023 reporting year from 286,304 tCOe to 346,819 tCOe due to one
2 2
of our largest suppliers (by spend) restating their publicly reported emissions. The supplier restatement is a result of improved data accuracy within its calculations.
As underlying data evolves, we will refine our methodology to improve accuracy and align to evolving industry standards, for example data centre emissions
categorisation and appropriate emissions allocation
6 Page 61 of this report sets out the different reporting periods for the data in this table. This year, the reporting period for Category 6: Business travel (air travel) has
been adjusted from a 1 October 2023 to 30 September 2024 period to a 1 January 2023 to 31 December 2023 period, to align these emissions with those in Category
6: Business travel (miscellaneous other than air travel). While a change in reporting period does not require a restatement of prior reporting periods under the
GHG Protocol – Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard, we have opted to restate 2023 from 60,279 tCOe to 48,046 tCOe to allow
2 2
a comparable period. We plan to complete a review of our air travel methodology in 2025
7 Category 7: Employee commuting includes both emissions from commuting (67,035 tCOe) and emissions associated with home office working (14,030 tCOe)
2 2
8 Category 15: Investments includes financed and facilitated emissions and are measured on a one to two-year lag based on the availability of third-party and client
data. Total Category 15 financed emissions have been updated for facilitated emissions for the oil and gas sector which were reported separately for the first time
during 2024. Facilitated emissions are calculated on a three year rolling average. Mortgage absolute financed emissions were restated from 0.04 MtCOe to
2
0.4 MtCOe following a decimal place error in reporting in 2022 and 2023. Category 15 emissions are rounded to the nearest 1,000 MtCOe. Facilitated emissions
2 2
values are calculated on a three-year rolling average
9 Excluding agriculture sector Scope 3 emissions
10 During the year, the Group completed a sector-specific baseline and target for the agriculture sector, the last high emitting sector as defined by the NZBA
guidance. The baseline emissions were calculated for the 2023 reporting year using the Implied Temperature Rise (ITR) method, and a 2030 interim target has
been set against the 2023 baseline. The ITR method has been applied, which allows us to capture Scope 3, due to the complexities of the value chain of the sector,
availability of data and the nature of operation of our clients in the sector value chain. The decision to include Scope 3 emissions of the Group’s agriculture clients
was tacit as this has the most real-world impact, by allowing the Group to engage with its clients to decarbonise their operations and supply chains. On an
absolute emission basis the agriculture portfolio has 1.2 MtCOe in its Scope 1 and 2 emissions and a further 10.3 MtCOe in its Scope 3 emissions, giving the sector
2 2
11.5 MtCOe in total (see Agriculture in ‘Detailed progress against our sectoral financed emission targets’) . In prior years, the Scope 1 and 2 emissions of the Group’s
2
agriculture clients were included within the Category 15 absolute financed emissions, in the “Others” category. Agriculture Scope 3 emissions were not included in
prior year numbers because the sector deep dive had not occurred and scope 3 is generally not calculated for the agriculture sector. As such, the Scope 3 emissions
of 10.3 MtCOe are not included in the Total Scope 3 Category 15 emissions above as this would not be comparable to prior years
2
76 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 77
Sustainability
review
Our operations
This section covers our Scope 1 and Scope 2 Despite this, we remain committed to the initiative, however,
acknowledging that market constraints may limit our ability
emissions as defined on page 76
to achieve these goals in the short/mid-term, financial or other
Our approach to managing our environmental footprint constraints may reasonably prevent the Group from taking all
available steps to meet the target.
The Group defines and aims to achieve net zero in line with
ISO IWA 42 as a condition in which human-caused residual
Offsets
GHG emissions are balanced by human-led removals over a
specified period and within specified boundaries whereby We have purchased and retired carbon credits to mitigate
residual emissions are those GHG emissions that remain after our residual operational Scope 1 and 2 emissions for 2024 and
taking all possible actions to implement emissions reductions. Scope 3 emissions associated with air travel and outsourced
on-premise data centres. Our carbon credit portfolio includes
Our approach is to prioritise the direct reduction of Scope 1
a range of decarbonisation activities that result in both
and 2 emissions by:
removal and reduction of atmospheric methane and carbon
1. Using efficiency measures across our property portfolio to dioxide, with the majority being for carbon dioxide removal.
actively reduce our energy consumption
The projects we sourced were selected based on criteria such
2. Purchasing renewable energy, either through on-site as integrity, proximity to our operations, and co-benefits.
installations or power purchase agreements For 2024, the relevant projects were issued by Verra, Gold
Standard and Puro Earth.
3. Purchasing energy attribution certificates/renewable
energy certificates – where possible in the same regions
Waste
where energy is consumed. This is reinforced by our
We aim to achieve 90 per cent avoidance of landfill by 2030.
commitment to purchasing 100 per cent renewable
electricity by 2025 when we joined RE100¹ in 2022. In 2024, we reduced our overall waste generated by
18 per cent and achieved 61 per cent avoidance of landfill
We counterbalance any residual Scope 1 and 2 emissions by
(up from 52 per cent in 2023). Our sites in India, Kenya and
purchasing and retiring carbon credits as described in the
Poland achieved TRUE Zero Waste programme platinum
offsets section below.
rating. We are single-use plastics free in 324 locations
currently. We have also engaged with an NGO to upcycle
Progress in 2024
hard-to recycle items and are minimising electronic waste
We reduced our Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 28 per cent to
by prolonging the lifespan of our technology assets through
24,968 tCOe during 2024.
2 partnerships with third parties.
Scope 1
Water
This year, we were able to expand the Scope 1 emissions
We retained a water efficiency metric of 0.53 kilolitres per
that we capture to include emissions from our vehicle fleet.
square metre in 2024 despite a 39 per cent increase in the
Our fuel emissions are mostly due to the use of back-up diesel
proportion of our employees returning to the office. While
generators, which are operated when regular power supplies
water availability is a growing challenge in many of our
from the grid are disrupted – which happens frequently in
markets, we did not face any issues sourcing potable water
some markets (for example, Nigeria and Pakistan). We are
in 2024. We continue to seek to take a responsible approach
using biodiesel and biofuels in markets when they become
to managing water use across the Group.
available (for example, Hong Kong, Singapore and India).
For detailed environmental performance data see our ESG data
Scope 2 pack at sc.com/esg-data-pack
We reduced our Scope 2 emissions by 34 per cent in 2024. Read the principles and methodology for measuring our environment
This is partially due to our measured real estate decreasing data at sc.com/environmentcriteria
by 3.4 per cent during this time, as we continually right-size Read the independent assurance statement related to Scope 1 and 2
and adjust our portfolio size to suit our operation. GHG emissions at sc.com/environmentalassurance
We have also actively sought to increase the proportion of
our electricity usage that comes from a renewable source to
77 per cent this year. This can take the form of power purchase
agreements, clean energy contracts, on-site solar installations
or renewable energy certificates.
We continue to work towards purchasing renewable energy
in every country possible and are striving to meet our target
of 100 per cent by 2025. However, due to market constraints
and lack of renewable energy options in some markets within
Africa and the Middle East (for example, Bahrain, Botswana,
Ghana, Iraq and Tanzania), we may not be able to meet our
RE1001 aspiration in 2025. We also have some countries where
we purchase renewables through ‘cross-border’ grid feeds,
which is recognised for our net zero target, but not recognised
by RE100.
1 RE100 is a global corporate renewable energy initiative bringing together businesses that are committed to purchasing 100 per cent renewable electricity
Sustainability review
Our suppliers
This section covers our Scope 3 Category available) with supplier spend and sector average emissions
data for those who are unable to report. In 2024, we engaged
1–14 emissions.
with our suppliers to collect supplier specific data to improve
Our approach to managing impacts in our upstream the quality of our reporting. This resulted in an increase
value chain from approximately 24 to 32 per cent of supplier-specific
The Supply Chain Management team provides procurement data collected, either via questionnaires or CDP responses.
services internally to drive commercial value generation and Consequently, we have restated Scope 3 Category 1
manage sustainability and supply chain risks. Proactive Purchased goods and services emissions data for the
supplier engagement and data quality remain a key focus 2023 reporting year (based on 2022 data).
of our supply chain sustainability strategy as we continue to In collaboration with DHL, one of our largest logistics suppliers,
engage constructively with suppliers to increase transparency we coinvested in sustainable aviation fuel to reduce emissions
and accountability around climate impact, and to promote related to the shipment of our parcels. We maintain travel
emissions reductions. demand measures and continue to offset air travel emissions
as described on page 77. As data accuracy increases, we
Supplier Charter and engagement will be better able to understand and act upon the key
Through our Supplier Charter, we set out the principles that contributors to our impact and determine further
Standard Chartered expects from its suppliers, and those opportunities for reductions.
within the suppliers’ sphere of influence that assist them in
performing their obligations for us. These principles have been Limitations
drawn from the international organisations and conventions Supply chain emissions calculations are evolving and remain
of which we are members or signatories. heavily dependent on supplier-provided information. As part
of our continuous improvement process, we will continue
We engage our largest suppliers to better understand where
to work with our suppliers on data quality and our own
they stand on climate impact matters. Through supplier
internal stakeholders to continually improve and enhance
questionnaires and direct engagement, we request our larger
our Scope 3 emissions reporting accuracy. This includes the
suppliers (by spend) to share their emissions information
accuracy of individual supplier category mapping to the
and/or to set reduction targets in line with our internal
appropriate emissions calculation factor. As underlying data
reduction goals. We aim to direct at least 50 per cent of our
total spend1 to suppliers who have set science-based emission evolves, we will refine our methodology to improve accuracy
and align to evolving industry standards; for example,
reduction targets.
data centre emissions categorisation and appropriate
We look for opportunities for innovation and collaboration emissions allocation.
with our suppliers on shared sustainability goals. For example,
in 2024 we partnered with one of our global technology Our Supplier Charter can be viewed at sc.com/suppliercharter
suppliers to reduce the GHG emissions from across our supply For further information on how we engage with suppliers see
chain by creating a standard package for each monitor we page 37 and for supplier spend data see our ESG data pack at
purchase while excluding monitor stands. This approach sc.com/esg-data-pack
enabled us to reduce the emissions of shipping unnecessary
1 Spend includes Scope 3 Category 1: Purchased goods and services and
monitor stands, cabling and plastic packaging. capital goods suppliers excluding non-addressable spend. Addressable
spend is defined as external costs incurred by Standard Chartered in the
Supply chain emissions normal course of business where Supply Chain Management has influence
over where the spend is placed. It excludes costs such as government and
Over time, the accuracy and coverage of suppliers’ emissions brokerage fees, rates and taxes and employee expenses. It also excludes any
calculations have been improving. Despite this, limitations to Category 1 co-location data centres which are calculated on energy use and
reported separately under Scope 3
the availability of this data remain. Therefore, we continue to
use a hybrid methodology for emissions calculations which
combines emissions data collected from vendors (when
Our clients
This section covers our Scope 3 Category 15 The Group has now set a target for its agriculture portfolio.
emissions (financed and facilitated emissions). With the addition of this sector, the Group has now set and
disclosed science-based interim 2030 financed emissions
The majority of our GHG emissions are linked to our lending
targets for our 12 highest-emitting sectors. We are working
activities, known as financed emissions. We have prioritised
across our businesses and functions and, alongside our clients,
our efforts in the highest-emitting sectors of our portfolio, and
aim to deliver these targets, notwithstanding the challenges
where working with our clients can have the greatest impact.
presented by a material portion of our markets not having a
Our carbon accounting is calculated and reported in line with commitment to achieve net zero by 2050.
the GHG Protocol and PCAF Standards.
For further information, please refer to the Group’s ‘Net Zero
Methodological White Paper – The journey continues’ via
sc.com/sustainabilitylibrary
78 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 79
Sustainability
review
2030 financed emissions targets
First included in analysis
2021 2022 2023 2024
Thermal
Agriculture
coal mining
Commercial real
Steel
estate
Residential
mortgages Oil and gas
2030 financed
emissions targets
Aluminium Power
Automotive
Cement
manufacturers
Aviation Shipping
Setting science-based targets
This year, the Group has set a baseline and target for During 2024, the Group engaged our external assurance
agriculture. With the addition of this sector, the Group provider to perform an ISRS 4400 (Revised) ‘Agreed upon
has now set and disclosed science-based interim 2030 Procedure’ review to confirm whether our targets for thermal
financed emissions targets for our 12 highest-emitting sectors. coal, steel, oil and gas, power, automotive manufacturers,
shipping, cement, aluminium, and commercial real estate
In addition to setting our final financed emissions sector
meet the long-term temperature goal of the Paris Agreement,
target, a facilitated emissions target was set during the year
and are mathematically accurate in reference to the third-
for oil and gas, which currently makes up the majority of
party science-based scenarios.
emissions within our facilitation portfolio.
Due to our footprint – with many emerging markets and
The Group has also resumed reporting on the aviation
developing countries reliant on carbon-intensive industries –
sector following the sale of the Group’s aircraft leasing
our financed emissions may increase before they decrease.
business and a significant portion of the lending business
However, our aim is to remain Paris aligned for our interim
associated with this.
targets and aligned to a science-based 1.5°C scientific
The Group’s targets have been informed by pre-eminent, pathway by 2050.
scientific forward-looking scenario providers. This includes
Given our science-based approach, we will strive to update
the IEA for energy sectors, the Mission Possible Partnership
our targets both as the scientific community updates its
(MPP) for metals and aviation, the International Maritime
reference scenarios and as data availability improves.
Organization (IMO) for shipping and Carbon Risk Real Estate
Monitor (CRREM) for the residential real estate sector. The Agreed-Upon Procedures Report on our Intermediate Financed
Emissions Targets can be accessed via sc.com/sustainabilitylibrary
Sustainability review
Detailed progress against our sectoral financed emissions targets
CIB
20232 20222
2023 Absolute Absolute % change
Exposure in Interim emissions3 Physical emissions3 Physical Baseline cumulative Year
Sector scope ($bn) 2030 target1 (MtCOe) intensity (MtCOe) intensity year to baseline target set
2 2
Agriculture4 7.8 2.2-2.4°C (11-19%) 11.5 2.72^ °C na4 na4 2023 na4 2024
Aluminium 0.1 6.1 t COe/tonne 0.1 3.28^ tCOe/ 0.3 4.59 2021 -42 2023
2 2
aluminium (–) tonne tCOe/tonne
2
aluminium aluminium
Automotive 3.2 66–100 gCO/Vkm 3.1 157^ 2.8 165 2021 -12 2022
2
manufacturers (44 – 63%) gCO/Vkm gCO/Vkm
2 2
Aviation5 1.3 773 gCOe/RTK8 1.2 782^ gCOe/ na5 na5 2021 -32 2024
2 2
(33%) RTK
Cement 0.6 0.52 tCO/tonne 2.1 0.62^ tCO/ 3.5 0.66 2021 -8 2023
2 2
cement (22%) tonne cement tCO/tonne
2
cement
Commercial 5.0 19–39 kgCOe/sq.m 0.1 58^ kgCOe/ 0.1 62 2021 -21 2023
2 2
real estate (47 –74%) Sq.m kgCOe/sq.m
2
Oil and gas 6.4 9.3 MtCOe 9.4^ na9 10.3 na9 2020 -28 2023
2
(29%)
Power 5.2 0.17–0.28 tCO/ 4.8 0.43^ 5.9 0.47 2021 -17 2023
2
MWh (46 –67%) tCO/MWh tCO/MWh
2 2
Shipping6 4.6 0% delta 2.9 +3.2%^ delta 2.8 +11.8% delta 2021 -4 2022
0% delta +8.2%^ delta +16% delta
Steel 0.5 1.4–1.6 tCO/tonne 1.3 1.87^ tCO/ 2.0 1.97 2021 -9 2023
2 2
steel (22 –32%) tonne steel tCO/tonne
2
steel
Thermal 0.03 0.5 MtCOe 1.2^ na9 1.6 na9 2020 -64 2021
2
coal mining (85%)
Others7 45.4 na10 8.5 na10 12.6 na10 na10 na10 na10
WRB
20232 20222
2023 Absolute Absolute % change
Exposure in Interim emissions3 Physical emissions3 Physical Baseline cumulative Year
Sector scope ($bn) 2030 target1 (MtCOe) intensity (MtCOe) intensity year to baseline target set
2 2
Residential 68.4 29–32 kgCOe/sq.m 0.41 36.04^ 0.43 37.7 2021 -4 2023
2
mortgages11 (15 –23%) kgCOe/sq.m kgCOe/sq.m
2 2
1 An Agreed Upon Procedure review was performed by EY over the Group’s 7 Others includes miscellaneous non-high-emitting sectors not included in a
net zero targets except for aviation, agriculture and residential mortgages. sector deep dive
Procedures included confirming a net zero target had been set, that the 8 RTK (revenue tonne-kilometre) is a measure of annual passenger and cargo
scenarios used to set net zero targets are from crediblethird-party sources aircraft traffic representing the metric tonne of revenue load carried one kilometre
as recommended by the NZBA and the selected scenarios align to the 9 Value is not required as the Group has set an absolute emissions target and
quantitative temperature goal of article 2(1)a of the Paris Agreement therefore the production intensity of the portfolio has not been measured
2 Due to third-party data sets that feed into our emissions calculations, the 10 Value is not required as the Group has not set a target for the ‘others’ sector
Group’s reported financed emissions figures have a one to two-year lag
11 The Group has set its residential mortgage target range at the most ambitious
depending on when third-party data providers release their data refresh
end of the public commitments made by governments and power companies
3 Emissions are calculated in CO2 except where other GHGs are material which in the countries where we operate, and has been benchmarked to the CRREM
are noted as CO2e (this includes agriculture, aluminium, aviation, commercial scientific pathway. Prior year absolute emissions have been restated from 0.04
real estate, oil and gas, shipping, thermal coal mining and residential mortgages) to 0.4 MtCOe following a decimal place error in reporting in 2022 and 2023.
4 During the year a sector-specific deep dive was performed on the agriculture Reporting fo 2 r residential mortgages includes Hong Kong, Singapore, Taiwan
sector, the last highest-emitting sector as defined by the NZBA. The baseline and South Korea. These markets make up the majority of the emissions in our
emissions have been measured and a target set for the 2023 year of reporting residential mortgages portfolio
5 Aviation emissions reporting was resumed in 2024 following the sale of the
Group’s aircraft leasing business and a significant portion of the lending
business associated with this, during 2023. No 2022 emissions value has been Values noted with a caret symbol (^) are subject to independent limited
measured this year. assurance by EY. The report is available at sc.com/sustainabilitylibrary
6 During the year the Poseidon Principles were updated to only require reporting
against the ‘minimum’ and ‘striving’ scenarios. Reporting against the old IMO For further information, please refer to our ‘Net Zero Methodological
existing strategy has been discontinued. Progress is reported on the revised White Paper – The journey continues’ publication via
minimum strategy consistent with prior year sc.com/sustainabilitylibrary
80 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 81
Sustainability
review
Our approach to measuring financed emissions
CIB
2023 2022 In scope
Emissions Scope of PCAF PCAF exposure
Sector approach Scenario Value chain emissions score score coverage1
Agriculture Implied 1, 2 2.72 na
IPCC Full value chain
temperature 82%
rise (ITR) (1.5C – 2C) (pre-farm and post-farm) 3 4.73 na
Aluminium Production
MPP STS Aluminium producers 1, 2 1.2 2.4 100%
intensity
Automotive Physical 1, 2 2.32 2.22
manufacturers IEA APS and NZE Automotive manufacturers 100%
intensity 3 5.03 5.03
Aviation Physical 1 2.02 na
MPP Prudent Aircraft operators 100%
intensity 3 2.03 na
Cement Production Clinker and
IEA NZE 1, 2 2.3 2.3 100%
intensity cement manufacturing
Commercial Physical
real estate intensity IEA APS and NZE Real estate leasing 1, 2 4.0 4.0 100%
Oil and gas Absolute Upstream, midstream and 1, 2 3.22 3.22
IEA NZE 98%
emissions downstream 3 3.23 3.23
Power Production
IEA APS and NZE Electricity generation 1, 2 3.4 3.3 100%
intensity
Shipping Physical IMO rev. min. IMO Shipping lessors and
1, 3 1.0 1.0 99%
intensity striving companies
Steel Production
MPP TM Steel producers 1, 2 3.3 3.8 100%
intensity
Thermal coal Absolute 1, 2 3.92 3.72
mining IEA NZE Thermal coal 100%
emissions 3 3.03 3.03
Others Absolute
IEA NZE Other sectors 1, 2 3.1 3.3 86%
emissions
WRB
Residential Physical
CRREM Residential households 1, 2 4.4 4.4 100%
mortgages intensity
Sector emissions for material Scope 3 high-emitting sectors
2023 (MtCOe) 2022 (MtCOe) 2021 (MtCOe)
2 2 2
Sector Scope 1, 2 Scope 3 Scope 1, 2 Scope 3 Scope 1, 2 Scope 3
Agriculture 1.2 10.3 na na na na
Automotive manufacturers 0.1 3.0 0.1 2.7 0.1 3.2
Oil and gas 1.5 7.9 1.7 8.6 1.3 8.9
Thermal coal mining 0.1 1.1 0.1 1.5 0.1 2.2
1 In scope exposure falls below 100 per cent in instances where client data is not available, and the carbon calculation cannot be run
2 PCAF score for Scope 1 and 2 emissions
3 PCAF score for Scope 3 emissions
For further information, please refer to our ‘Net Zero Methodological White Paper – The journey continues’ publication via sc.com/sustainabilitylibrary
Sustainability review
Agriculture Aluminium
Balance Performance
in scope Interim target versus baseline
$7.8bn 2.2 -2.4°C newly set
Sector background
The agriculture sector accounts for 20 per cent of global
anthropogenic1 emissions per the World Business Council for
Sustainable Development (WBCSD) with an extensive value
chain from fertiliser to retail stores.
Emissions arise from inputs such as fertiliser, crops and livestock
(including methane from ruminant portfolios), and from the
distribution and processing of farm products.
Approach to achieving net zero targets
• Tracking our clients who do not have commitments, engaging
and actively working with those clients to advise on getting
their journey started and targets set
• Encouraging our clients to use renewable energy and improve
energy efficiency
• Improving traceability and labelling for sustainable products
• Reduce food loss in processing, especially in developing
economies
Baseline target and portfolio progress 2023 to 2030
3.00
2.72
2.50
2.4°C
2.2°C
2.00
1.50
2023
Baseline 2.0°C scope 1,2 and 3 scenario
1.5°C scope 1,2 and 3 scenario
82 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
*erocs
)RTI(
esiR
erutarepmeT
deilpmI
Balance Performance
in scope Interim target versus baseline
6.1 tCOe/tonne
$0.1bn 2 -42%
aluminium
Sector background
The production of aluminium is emissions intensive and is
responsible for 1 per cent of energy-related emissions per IEA
WEO, 20242.
The aluminium sector relies heavily on electricity from the local
grid. Over 60 per cent of the sector’s emissions are attributable
to the electricity consumed during smelting for the electrolytic
reduction process.
Approach to achieving net zero targets
• Promoting electricity decarbonisation and engaging clients
to uptake renewable energy power purchase agreements
• Reducing direct emissions through electrification, fuel
switching and use of carbon capture, utilisation and storage
(CCUS)
• Incentivising recycling and resource efficiency which has a
significantly lower production intensity
Baseline target and portfolio progress 2021 to 2030
9
8
7
-11% to -19%
6 5.62
6.1
5 4.59
4
3 3.28
2
1
0
24 25 26 27 28 29 2030 2021
Baseline Portfolio progress MPP STS
Progress in the year
An agriculture sector baseline and target was measured and
reported for the first time during 2024.
A temperature alignment target has been set reflecting the
complexity of the agriculture value chain, as well as the diversity
of the Group’s clients in that value chain that include activities
from fertiliser, through farming, up to and including food
processors, wholesalers and traders (noting that the Group
does not have a ruminants book of any materiality).
A range target was set for the sector using a well below 2°C and
1.5°C pathway which include Scope 1, 2 and Scope 3 emissions to
ensure the most impact.
This places an emphasis on the larger corporates within the
value chain to drive change, which includes engagement with
their suppliers to decarbonise their Scope 3 emissions, hence
where the Group believes the greatest impact can be achieved.
)muinimulA
ennoT
/
eOCt(
ytisnetni
noissimE
2
22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 2030
Progress in the year
The production intensity for the aluminium portfolio has declined
from 4.59 tCOe/tonne aluminium to 3.28 tCOe/tonne
2 2
aluminium, a decrease of 29 per cent year-on-year.
This was driven by increased lending issued to aluminium
producers who utilise a high percentage of scrap within their
production process moving the overall intensity of the portfolio
down, given the lower intensity of these clients.
Scrap results in avoided electricity use from the electrolysis phase
of production with emissions only produced from the collection,
transport and smelting of recycled aluminium.
The Group remained well below our 2030 target because of
balances of recycled aluminium clients, which we aim to expand
in the future. We are further working with our primary aluminium
producers on their options for procurement of clean energy.
1 Anthropogenic emissions are emissions caused by human activities and
On track include energy-related emissions from the burning of fossil fuels, emissions
from agriculture and land use change and emissions from waste
2 Sector emissions contribution as per the IEA’s WEO released in 2024
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 83
Sustainability
review
Automotive Aviation
Balance Performance
in scope Interim target versus baseline
$3.2bn 66 – 100 gCO/Vkm -12%
2
Sector background
The automotive sector is a key sector for international supply
chains and the economy, with tailpipe emissions being the
primary source of carbon emissions from the sector.
Annually, the exhaust emissions from passenger vehicles
account for 8 per cent of global energy-related emissions
per IEA WEO, 2024.
Approach to achieving net zero targets
• Encouraging fuel-switch and improving fuel-efficiency as a
first step
• Maximising the electrification production of vehicles
• Encouraging recycling and the circular economy in the
manufacturing process
Baseline target and portfolio progress 2021 to 2030
255
240
225
210
195
178
180
165
165 157
150
135
120
105 100
90
75
60 66
45
30
15
2021
)mkv
/
OCg(
ytisnetni
noissimE
2
Balance Performance
in scope Interim target versus baseline
$1.3bn 773 gCOe/RTK -32%
2
Sector background
The aviation sector accounts for 2 per cent of global energy-
related emissions per IEA WEO, 2024.
The majority of emissions arise from the burning of aviation fuels.
Approach to achieving net zero targets
• Encouraging our clients to scale up the production and use
of sustainable aviation fuels to reduce emissions
• Encourage the transition of the global fleet to the most
fuel-efficient (new technology) aircraft
Baseline target and portfolio progress 2021 to 2030
1,500
1,300
1,152
1,100
-44% to -63%
900
782 773
700
500
22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 2030 2021
Baseline Portfolio progress IEA APS IEA NZE
Progress in the year
The automotive manufacturers portfolio intensity, which is
based upon the CO of tailpipe emissions per distance travelled,
2
has decreased 5 per cent year-on-year from 165 gCO/Vkm to
2
157 gCO/Vkm.
2
This is driven by ongoing financing provided to manufacturers
who are solely making EVs, especially in China, and the financing
of manufacturers who are changing their production mix away
from internal combustion engines towards hybrid engines
and EVs.
The Group is actively monitoring and steering the portfolio
towards those automotive manufacturers that have a higher
proportion of EVs in their overall vehicle production mix.
)KTR/eOCg(
ytisnetni
lacisyhP
2
-33%
22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 2030
Baseline Portfolio progress MPP Prudent
Progress in the year
Aviation sector emissions were reported for the first time in 2021.
Following this, the Group’s aircraft operating leasing business
and a select portfolio of the lending business was sold during
2023. Due to this structural change in the Group’s portfolio
emissions profile, reporting of the aviation sector was paused
awaiting final sale.
During 2024, reporting has been resumed. The target for the
sector has been updated, in line with the industry’s Pegasus
Guidelines launched in 2023 and based on the revised MPP
Prudent scenario. Since the 2021 baseline, the emissions intensity
of the Group has decreased 32 per cent from 1,152 tCOe/RTK 2
to 782 tCOe/RTK primarily as a result of the aircraft portfolio 2
sales which removed older less-efficient aircraft from the
Group’s portfolio.
The Group’s emissions intensity is on track to be in line with the
MPP Prudent scenario by 2030 given the majority of the portfolio
funding new technology aircraft with improved fuel efficiency
when compared with the current global market fleet.
On track
Sustainability review
Cement Commercial real estate
Balance Performance
in scope Interim target versus baseline
0.52 tCO/tonne
$0.6bn 2 -8%
cement
Sector background
The cement sector contributes approximately 6 per cent towards
global energy-related emissions per IEA WEO, 2024.
The primary source of the emissions occurs during the
production process where a chemical reaction takes place
between limestone and heat.
Approach to achieving net zero targets
• Improving energy efficiency of plants
• Encourage clients to use alternative fuels such as waste and
biomass in the production process
• Use of clinker substitutes
• Financing of electric kiln technologies
Baseline target and portfolio progress 2021 to 2030
0.75
0.70 0.67
0.66
0.65
0.60 0.62
0.55
0.50 0.52
0.45
0.40
0.35
0.30
2021
Baseline Portfolio progress IEA NZE
84 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
)tcudorp
suoititnemeC
ennoT
/
OCt(
ytisnetni
noissimE
2
Balance Performance
in scope Interim target versus baseline
$5.0bn 19 –39 kgCOe/sq.m -21%
2
Sector background
The commercial real estate sector contributed 2 per cent
towards global energy- related emissions per IEA WEO, 2024.
Emissions primarily arise from the operation of the building and
to a lesser extent embodied emissions related to its construction.
Approach to achieving net zero targets
• The decarbonisation of the power grids which supply the
commercial buildings financed.
• Encourage fuel switch from fossil fuels to heat pumps
or direct electricity
• Lending to retrofitting existing building stock to improve
operational efficiency by installing better insulation, low-
energy appliances, efficient cooling and on-site battery and
thermal storage
• Power purchase agreement of renewable electricity from
the local grid
Baseline target and portfolio progress 2021 to 2030
80
75 73
70
65
60 62 58
55 -22%
50
45
40
35 39
30
25
20
15 19
10
5
0
22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 2030 2021
Progress in the year
The cement portfolio intensity has dropped from 0.66 tCO/
2
tonnes cement to 0.62 tCO/tonnes cement, a decrease of
2
6 per cent year-on-year.
This is driven by increased lending to clients, with lower production
intensities seen from our clients as they improve on their energy
efficiency of their plants in order to meet their targets.
In addition to this, the Group has also increased our exposure
to lower-intensity clients, which has resulted in the portfolio
average emissions reducing as well.
)aera
roofl
m.qs/eOCgk(
ytisnetni
noissimE
2
-47% to -74%
22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 2030
Baseline Portfolio progress IEA NZE IEA APS
Progress in the year
The commercial real estate portfolio intensity has decreased
6 per cent from 62 kgCOe/sq.m to 58 kgCOe/sq.m year-on-year.
2 2
The reduction is predominantly driven by decreases in the electricity
grid intensities in the markets where funded properties are located.
This follows our belief that energy decarbonisation, which we are
actively persuing through our power target, has positive
downstream impacts on other sectors.
In addition to this, there has been some change in the location mix
of our portfolio as a whole, with an increase in exposure to buildings
located in European countries which have lower-intensity electricity
grids, and a relative decrease in exposure to higher-intensity
locations in ASEAN markets.
We continue to work with our clients to finance new and energy
efficient buildings, but also with power companies in their energy
supply decarbonisation, which in turn benefits the commercial real
estate portfolio intensity.
On track
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 85
Sustainability
review
Oil and gas Power
Balance Performance
in scope Interim target versus baseline
$6.4bn 9.3 MtCOe -28%
2
Sector background
The oil and gas sector’s production emissions (i.e., operations)
account for approximately 15 per cent (IEA Emissions from Oil
and Gas Operations in Net Zero Transitions1) of global energy-
related emissions, respectively.
Approach to achieving net zero targets
• Reducing Scope 1 and 2 production-based emissions through
improvements in operational efficiency, reducing methane
leakages, venting and flaring
• Encouraging investment in CCUS
• Encourage and funding our clients’ evolution to greater gas
business, including liquid natural gas (LNG) terminals and
renewables portfolios to supplement their existing oil business.
Baseline target and portfolio progress 2020 to 2030
16
14
12 10.3
10
10.2
9.4 9.3
8
6
4
2
0
2020
Baseline Portfolio progress IEA NZE
)eOCtM(
snoissime
decnanfi
etulosbA
2
Balance Performance
in scope Interim target versus baseline
$5.2bn 0.17 – 0.28 tCO/MWh -17%
2
Sector background
The electricity and heat sector contributed 40 per cent towards
global GHG emissions per IEA WEO, 2024. It is projected that
global electricity demand will continue to rise especially in
emerging markets and developing economies.
Approach to achieving net zero targets
• Mobilising lending towards renewable energy and other low
carbon power plant projects
• Encouraging our clients to invest in renewable energy sources
to diversify their generation mix
• Participating in JETPs to encourage our clients to decarbonise
their power supplies
• Funding coal phase out in line with the IEA NZE pathway
Baseline target and portfolio progress 2021 to 2030
0.55 0.52
0.50
13.1
0.45
0.47 -29% 0.40 0.43
0.35
0.30
0.25 0.28
0.20
0.15 0.17
0.10
0.05
21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 2030 2021
Progress in the year
The oil and gas portfolio emissions have decreased 9 per cent
year-on-year from 10.3 MtCOe to 9.4 MtCOe. The portfolio
2 2
exposure also decreased by 9 per cent from the prior year, driving
down absolute emissions in the sector.
This has also been driven by a decrease in short-term trade
funding and greater lending to lower carbon intensive clients
and technologies such as standalone LNG facilities.
We are encouraged to see improved methane abatement
practices from our clients, continued investment in renewable
portfolios and carbon capture technologies being brought
forward for funding which we are increasingly providing.
)ruoh
ttawagem
yb
OC
fo
sennot(
ytisnetni
noissimE
2
-46% to -67%
22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 2030
Baseline Portfolio progress IEA APS IEA NZE
Progress in the year
The power portfolio intensity is down 9 per cent year-on-year
from 0.47 tCO/MWh to 0.43 tCO/MWh with an increase in
2 2
exposure of 6 per cent.
Significant movements in portfolio intensity included:
• Decreases in thermal coal power generation in the book due
to reducing exposures to coal power generation sources as
balances mature in line with contractual maturities and as
mandated by our Position Statements on thermal coal
• Increased lending to renewables projects and lower intensity
gas projects which continue to make up a greater proportion
of the financed power portfolio
• Increases in lending to counterparties that had higher
percentages of nuclear and renewable generation
There is further a strong pipeline of lower-intensity gas, power
plants and renewables projects due to start operations in the
future that are currently being funded.
1 Oil and gas sector operational emissions contribution to global energy-
related emission per the IEA’s ‘Emissions from oil and gas operations in On track
Net Zero Transitions’ publication released in 2023
Sustainability review
Shipping Steel
Balance Performance
in scope Interim target versus baseline
$4.6bn 0% delta -4%
Sector background
Shipping is key to facilitating global trade. The sector contributes
2 per cent of global energy-related emissions per IEA WEO, 2024.
The sectoral emissions predominantly arise from the combustion
of fuel in ships’ engines.
Approach to achieving net zero targets
• Engaging clients to invest in low carbon alternative fuels
and carbon capture technology to eventually achieve net
zero emissions
• Financing new and more fuel-efficient ships
• Providing transition finance for dual fuel ships
• Holding clients accountable for efficient emission practices
such as sailing at eco speed
Baseline target and portfolio progress 2021 to 2030
1
+7.3%
+11.8%
0.8 +3.2%
0.6
0.4
0.2
0.0
2021
86 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
ytisnetni
snoissime
evitaleR
)elim
lacituan
rep
ennot
thgiew
daed/eOCg(
2
Balance Performance
in scope Interim target versus baseline
$0.5bn 1.4–1.6 tCO/tonne steel -9%
2
Sector background
Steel is a critical material. It is essential to the functioning of the
global economy, from the production of the world’s vehicles and
household appliances to buildings and infrastructure. As such, the
steel sector is the largest source of industrial emissions and accounts
for roughly 7 per cent of global emissions per IEA WEO, 2024.
Approach to achieving net zero targets
• Increasing client renewable electricity usage for electric arc
furnace production
• Increased scrap steel uptake through trade finance or use
of proceeds finance
• Increased scrap collection and processing in local economies
• Increased operational efficiencies to existing Blast Furnaces
and Basic Oxygen Furnaces (BF-BOF)
Baseline target and portfolio progress 2021 to 2030
2.15
2.10 2.06
2.05
2.00 1.97 1.95
1.90
1.85 1.87
1.80
1.75
1.70
1.65
1.60
1.6
1.55
1.50
1.45
1.40
1.35 1.4
1.30
22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 2030 2021
Baseline Portfolio progress IMO Revised Minimum
IMO Striving
Progress in the year
During the year the alignment delta for the shipping sector
improved significantly from 11.8 per cent to 3.2 per cent against
the revised minimum scenario bringing the Group closer to its
0 per cent alignment delta target by 2030.
Improvements in our alignment delta were positively impacted
by the introduction of the CII regulation during 2023. CII is an
operational efficiency measure which requires ships to report their
carbon efficiency with an associated rating of A to E. Vessels
require a rating of C- or better to avoid potential disincentives.
Decarbonisation is the next frontier for pricing in shipping
finance. Margins are no longer driven by risk versus reward, but
also by balancing climate alignment of both the company and
the asset into the equation.
The Group continues to finance both dual fuel and newer ships
that are more energy efficient, with a focus on our clients setting
credible transition plans with ambitious targets.
Looking ahead, we are keen to observe the impact of the EU
Emissions Trading System (ETS) coming into effect in 2024,
especially for our clients who actively engage in European trade
and see how a carbon tax mechanism translates into next year’s
Poseidon reporting.
)leets
edurc
ennot
/
OCt(
ytisnetni
noissimE
2
-22% to -32%
22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 2030
Baseline Portfolio progress MPP TM regional MPP TM
Progress in the year
The steel sector emission intensities for the Group’s portfolio
have reduced by 5 per cent year-on-year from 1.97 tCO/tonnes
2
steel to 1.87 tCO/tonnes steel. This was driven by increasing
2
lending to clients utilising scrap steel, as opposed to those
utilising iron ore in blast furnaces.
We further noted and are actively pursuing funding an
increased uptake of scrap steel use from some of our primary
steel producers, which will reduce their production intensities.
This is due to more steel output produced using electricity
rather than the burning of coal and gas to steel from iron ore.
The Group has also collected better information for the portfolio
with fewer proxy-based emissions reported resulting in a better
portfolio intensity.
On track
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 87
Sustainability
review
Thermal Coal Mining Residential Mortgages
Balance Performance
in scope Interim target versus baseline
$0.03bn 0.5 MtCOe -64%
2
Sector background
The burning of coal is one of the most significant driving factors
in climate change. To reflect this, the Group has a thermal coal
Position Statement prohibiting the provision of financial services
to certain clients dependent on thermal coal.
Emissions arise as Scope 1 and 2 emissions for coal producers
(from energy used in the mining process) as well as Scope 3
emissions from end-of-use products, being the burning of coal
in upstream processes.
Approach to achieving net zero targets
• Rundown of thermal coal exposures in line with contractual
commitments
• Offboarding of clients in line with the Group’s thermal coal
Position Statement
• Participating in our JETPs to encourage our clients to
decarbonise their power supplies
Baseline target and portfolio progress 2020 to 2030
3.5 3.3
3.0
2.5
2.3
2.0
1.5
1.6
1.0 1.2
0.5
0.5
0
2020
)eOCtM(
snoissime
decnanfi
etulosbA
2
Balance Performance
in scope Interim target versus baseline
$68.4bn 29-32 kgCOe/sq.m -4%
2
Sector background
Residential housing contributed 5 per cent towards global
emissions per IEA WEO, 2024. The residential housing sector
emissions are primarily from two sources: the operation of the
building and embodied emissions (which are emissions related
to its construction).
Approach to achieving net zero targets
• Increase lending to clients to improve energy efficiency
through retrofitting and improvement of insulation,
ventilation, and energy management
• Collecting specific unit or building emissions data within the
portfolio, which reduces the need to use proxy data and
increases emission accuracy
• Engaging with clients to decarbonise their electricity supply;
for instance, through the direct purchase of green electricity
or green certificates
Baseline target and portfolio progress 2021 to 2030
40 37.6 37.7
35 36.04
32
30
29
25
-85%
20
15
10
5
0
21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 2030 2021
Baseline Portfolio progress IEA NZE
Progress in the year
Thermal coal absolute emissions have decreased by 25 per cent
from 1.6 MtCOe to 1.2 MtCOe.
2 2
This was due to the portfolio continuing to be paid down in line
with maturities, with no new loans issued during the period due
to the Group’s Thermal Coal Position Statement, which does not
allow lending to counterparties that are 80 per cent thermal coal
revenue reliant.
Please see the Group’s Position Statements for further details
at sc.com/positionstatements
)aera
roofl
m.qs/eOCgk(
ytisnetni
noissimE
2
-15%
23%
22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 2030
Baseline 2030 target (lower bound) CRREM
2030 target (upper bound)
Progress in the year
During the year, the Group measured its 2023 progress of GHG
emissions from the four main residential mortgage portfolios,
namely Hong Kong, South Korea, Singapore and Taiwan,
accounting for approximately 88 per cent of the Group’s
exposure. A physical intensity of kgCOe/sq.m is the metric used 2
to measure the portfolio’s progress. While we have set a single
Group-level target, the very nature of the residential real estate
market means all decarbonisation actions will take place at
the local level. Achieving our target is dependent on actions
by local governments and power companies decarbonising
power generation. The target range has been set at the
more ambitious end of the public commitments made by
governments and power companies in the countries where the
Group operates. These targets have been benchmarked to, and
currently sit above, the global CRREM pathway to 2030. The
portfolio intensity has decreased 4 per cent as we start to see
the emission intensity of power grids in these regions beginning
to decrease in line with our expectations.
On track
Sustainability review
Facilitated emissions
Interim 2023 2022 Baseline Baseline Target set % change cumulative
Sector1 2030 target Weighting MtCO2e MtCO2e MtCO2e year year to baseline
Oil and gas 100% weighting
1.76^ 3.01 4.02^
2.94 MtCO2e factor2
2021 2024 -56%
(26.9%) 33% weighting
0.58 0.99 1.33
factor2
Values noted with a caret symbol (^) are subject to independent limited assurance by EY. The report is available at sc.com/sustainabilitylibrary
In scope exposure
Sector Emission approach Scenario Value chain Scope of emissions 2023 PCAF score 2022 PCAF score coverage
Oil and gas Absolute Upstream, midstream 1, 2 2.93 2.63
IEA NZE 92%
emissions and downstream 3 3.04 3.04
Oil and gas
Value facilitated5 Interim target
$0.77bn 2.94 MtCOe
2
Progress in the year Baseline target and portfolio progress 2021 to 2030
During the year, a baseline and target were measured for the 6
oil and gas sector. A reduction target of 26.9 per cent from a
2021 baseline was set based on the IEA NZE scenario in line with
financed emissions.
Emissions associated with facilitation trended down between 4.02
2021 to 2023 as bond underwriting volumes were low due to 4
COVID and higher corresponding interest rates.
3.01
2.94
2
1.76
0
2021
Baseline Portfolio progress IEA NZE
88 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
)eOCtM(
snoissime
detatilicaf
etulosbA
2
-27%
22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 2030
1 The metric and target are based on the rolling 3 year average due to the cyclical nature of bond underwriting in the market
2 Emissions have been disclosed on a 100 per cent and 33 per cent weighting
3 PCAF score for Scope 1 and 2 emissions
4 PCAF score for Scope 3 emissions
5 Value facilitated is equal to the Group’s share of the Bond notional per the league table where we act as a bookrunner on the deal. Facilitated value shown for the
2023 financial year
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 89
Sustainability
review
Climate risk
An environmental (such as climate), social or governance Our Climate Risk Appetite Statement is approved annually
event, or change in condition, if it occurs, could result in actual by the Board and supported by Board Risk Appetite metrics
or potential financial loss or non-financial detriments to the (BRAMs) and Management Team Limits (MTL) across
Group. As such, Climate Risk is identified as a material risk for impacted risk types.
the Group, which is integrated across relevant Principal Risk
In 2024, we have continued to embed Climate Risk into
Types (PRTs) and is managed via the Environmental, Social,
existing risk management frameworks and processes. We
Governance and Reputational (ESGR) Risk policy framework.
have also published our Transition Plan, which articulates how
The Group is exposed to Climate Risk through our clients, own
we plan to manage Climate Risk by aiming to deliver on our
operations, vendors, and from the industries and markets in
commitments to reach net zero emissions in our financed
which we operate in.
emissions by 2050, and in our Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 2025.
We manage Climate Risk according to the characteristics of
the impacted PRTs. Risk Framework Owners for the impacted
PRTs are responsible for embedding Climate Risk requirements
within their respective risk types.
Time horizons used to assess the likelihood and impact of climate-related risks and opportunities
The time horizons that we use to identify, assess and manage our identified climate-related risks and opportunities are
as follows:
Short-term 0– 2 years • Our short-term time horizon aligns with our aim:
– To be net zero in our Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 2025
– To scale annual sustainable finance income to at least $1 billion by 2025
• In line with the Group’s operational net zero target, we set year-on-year
improvement targets for our footprint markets. Climate Risk is considered as
part of our formal annual corporate strategy and financial planning
process.
Medium-term 2 – 5 years • Our medium-term time horizon aligns with our interim 2030 targets set for
our 12 highest-emitting sectors and our commitment to mobilise $300 billion
of sustainable finance by 2030.
• Our strategic and financial planning constitutes action plans that intend to
enable us to align to our net zero targets. We also use scenario analysis to
consider how risks and opportunities may evolve under different situations
in the medium-term.
Long-term 5+ years • Our long-term time horizon aligns with our aspiration to achieve net zero in
our financed emissions by 2050.
• For climate scenario analysis, we run 30-year scenarios for both physical risk
and transition risk, with some elements of our physical risk scenario analysis
extending to 2100.
• Transition risk as our clients move to lower emitting revenues by virtue of
legislation is considered with reference to client transition pathways and
manifests over a longer term than the maturity of the loan book up to 2050.
We consider physical and transitional climate-related risk impacts in relation to our Wealth & Retail Banking and Corporate &
Investment Banking client segments, as well as in our own operations. Please refer to page 21 for further information relating to
our client segment risks, and page 264 for risks identified in our own operations.
For further information on how we deal with Climate Risk, please refer to the Risk review on pages 256 to 269
For our approach to managing Climate Risk through transition planning, refer to our Transition Plan at sc.com/transition-plan
For our TCFD disclosures, refer to the TCFD reporting index within the Strategic report on pages 43 to 44
Sustainability review
Nature
It is estimated that over half of global GDP is directly dependent upon nature. Despite this, nature
is rapidly declining. At Standard Chartered, we acknowledge that protecting nature is essential to
limiting global warming and mitigating the effects of climate change, so that the planet can sustain
livelihoods as well as support inclusive sustainable economic development.
In 2024, we published our inaugural Nature Position Statement mobilising funding for nature and delivery of the GBF
outlining our approach to nature across our business, our (target 19). We are members of a wide range of industry
clients, operations and supply chains. We seek to contribute platforms working to increase industry awareness of the
to the GBF 2030 mission of halting and reversing nature loss relevance of nature considerations to financial decision-
by: (1) continuing to integrate nature in decision-making making.
within our business (target 14); (2) publishing nature-related
disclosures in alignment with TNFD recommendations from Our progress on nature
2026 onwards (target 15); and (3) shifting financial flows The initiatives below represent the key highlights of the
toward nature- positive outcomes and contributing to work undertaken in 2024 in relation to nature.
Mobilising finance • Closed the Group’s first debt conversion for nature project with The Government of The Bahamas,
for nature-positive unlocking $124 million in savings for marine conservation. The savings will support The Bahamas in
outcomes effectively managing its extensive network of marine protected areas (MPAs), complete a national
Mangrove Management Plan, and develop and implement a Marine Spatial Plan. We were the sole
arranger, underwriter and liability manager.
• Expanded the Group’s 2024 GSPF to include additional nature-related activities informed by the GBF.
• Published our latest sustainability research, ‘Towards a sustainable ocean: where there’s a will, there’s a
wave’, highlighting opportunities for financing the nature-positive transition of the blue economy.
• Refer to the work done by our Nature Finance Innovation Hub on page 68 for more information.
Understanding • Established a Nature Risk working group, comprising of cross-functional teams, to advance our Nature
the materiality Risk analysis, leveraging our climate risk data to support more in-depth analysis of potentially material
of nature loss sectors and assess our financed assets exposure to nature impacts and dependencies.
on the Group’s • Undergoing assessment of the materiality of our own operations’ impacts and dependencies on nature.
activities • Exploring ways to minimise the environmental impact of our operations by reducing energy, GHG
emissions, water usage and non-hazardous waste generated in our operations (refer to page 77
for details).
• Set out the expectations of our suppliers to reduce waste from their operations, through our Supplier
Charter including managing environmental concerns in their own supply chains, and protecting the
environment and conserving natural resources, in compliance with all applicable environmental laws
and regulations.
• Conducted an internal research project to better understand the Group’s potential exposure to the
proceeds of illegal deforestation and how the risk of illegal deforestation may manifest in our clients’
supply chains.
Supporting • Engaged with market initiatives and financial regulators to advance the nature finance ecosystem.
collective action This includes our memberships in the UN Environment Programme Finance Initiative and Principles for
to address Responsible Banking, Singapore Sustainable Finance Association Natural Capital and Biodiversity
nature loss and Workstream, African Natural Capital Alliance, Green Finance Institute’s TNFD UK Consultation Group,
ecosystem decline WEF Biodiversity Credit Initiative, and the Global Islamic Finance Program.
• Specific focus on advancing the sustainable blue economy through continued engagement with the
Ocean Risk and Resilience Action Alliance, the UN Global Compact Ocean Investment Protocol Steering
Committee and the WWF Seafood Finance Working Group.
• Contributed to nature finance related white papers from World Economic Forum1, Climate Financial Risk
Forum2, Cambridge Institute for Sustainability Leadership3, and the Institute of International Finance4.
Building internal • Provided nature-related training to the Culture and Sustainability Board Committee as well as to internal
capacity functions, i.e. Climate Risk Analysts, Environmental and Social Risk Management (ESRM), ESGR and WRB.
• Expanded existing Nature Risk capability, with the hire of a Nature Risk Lead to further embed nature into
our risk policies, procedures, frameworks, and disclosures (refer to page 68 for details); and to inform client
nature-positive transition opportunities.
1 ‘Nature Finance and Biodiversity Credits: A Private Sector Roadmap to Finance and Act on Nature’, World Economic Forum, October 2024
2 ‘Nature-related risk: Handbook for financial institutions’, Climate Financial Risk Forum, October 2024
3 ‘Scaling Finance for Nature: Barrier Breakdown’, Cambridge Institute for Sustainability Leadership, October 2024
4 ‘Responding to Nature-related Risks and Opportunities’, Institute of International Finance
For a full list of our memberships and engagements visit sc.com/sustainabilitystakeholders
Our Supplier Charter can be viewed at sc.com/suppliercharter
Our Position Statements are available at sc.com/positionstatements
Read our blue economy research paper at sc.com/blue-economy
More information about the debt conversion for nature for the Bahamas is available at sc.com/debt-conversion
90 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 91
Sustainability
review
Social impact
We believe in the power of finance to drive positive change in the world. Our desire to drive
social impact extends across both our commercial and our philanthropic activities, reflecting our
aspiration to build a future that is both financially resilient and socially inclusive – this being a
foundation for healthy and sustainable economies in our markets.
We approach social impact from two angles concurrently: partnership, we aim to support women-owned companies
with the access to finance that they need to compete for large
• Through our business and clients: we provide clients
global contracts. By bringing together our global trade bank
with the financing that they and their communities need
with our SC WIN offerings, we aim to support women-owned
to tackle urgent matters such as inequality, access to
business with both the short-term working capital solutions
essential services, and inclusive growth.
and the long-term financing options that they need.
• Through our philanthropic community engagement:
This year, we became the first global bank to sign the WE
we work to empower disadvantaged young people by
Finance Code under the Women Entrepreneur Finance
providing them with skills and networks and connecting
Initiative across all of our banking centres. As signatories, we
them with employment and commercial opportunities.
aim to sex-disaggregate our own lending, and intend to work
The combination of these efforts underscores our holistic throughout the ecosystem to share knowledge with our peers.
approach to creating long-term value for our clients,
colleagues and communities. By integrating both commercial Supporting micro lending
and philanthropic aspirations to support our sustainability We recognise the pivotal role of microlending in fostering
work and our Stands, we aim to accelerate our progress and economic inclusion and sustainable development.
amplify positive social impact such as women’s empowerment Microlending plays a vital role across our footprint in
and financial inclusion. supporting underserved communities and creating
opportunities for growth. Since 2006, we have financed
Our commercial activities: investment in microfinance partners in India, Bangladesh, Philippines, Nepal,
social finance Pakistan, Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania and Nigeria. In 2024, we
We seek to partner with our clients and communities to supported more than $725 million lending to microfinance
mobilise social capital. Last year, we deepened our focus on institutions, enabling over 1.2 million borrowers to access loans.
mobilising social finance by appointing the Group’s first Head These loans support a wide range of needs, from building
of Social Sustainability. small businesses to covering education costs or managing
unexpected emergencies.
Empowering women-owned businesses
Women are key drivers of economic and social progress, Our philanthropic activities: investment
yet they continue to face significant challenges that often in community impact
limit their full participation in the global economy. These Our philanthropic approach aims to help bridge the often-
challenges include systemic barriers such as unequal access to significant gap that prevents young people from accessing
education, limited access to finance and financial resources, commercial products and services. Through community
and entrenched discriminatory social norms. partnerships, client partnerships and employee volunteering,
As part of our business, we provide women and women- we aim to contribute towards more inclusive economies and
owned businesses with the financing they need. A cornerstone increased equitable prosperity. Central to this effort is our
of our commitment is our SC Women’s International Network global youth economic empowerment initiative, Futuremakers
(SC WIN) banking proposition, a unique offering designed by Standard Chartered, which aims to help disadvantaged
exclusively for women-owned businesses, that offers tailored young people, especially young women, access economic
financial solutions, expert advisory services, and access to a opportunities through employability and entrepreneurship
global network of like-minded business leaders. Since its first support. From 2019 to 2024, through Futuremakers, we
launch in 2022, SC WIN has expanded its reach and is now live supported more than 53,000 young people to access decent
in seven markets, namely India, Kenya, Malaysia, Singapore, jobs and enabled more than 35,000 jobs through supported
Hong Kong, Vietnam and Pakistan. SC Win has extended microbusinesses.
more than $300 million of financing to women-owned We continue to deepen and scale our impact, working with
businesses since its first launch in November 2022. leading NGO partners to deliver longer-term programmes.
To further our support, we launched a partnership with Between 2024 and 2030, we aim to provide $120 million in
We Connect International, an organisation focused on Futuremakers with the intent to enable and support 140,000
helping women-run companies to get into global supply decent jobs2, including 70,000 jobs accessed by young female
chains. Despite corporate commitments, less than 1 per cent participants3 and 70,000 jobs created through supported
of all global procurement goes to women-owned companies,
microbusinesses4.
and this number hasn’t changed in decades1. Through our
1 ‘Procurement’s strategic value: Why gender-responsive procurement makes business sense.’ UN Women, 2022
2 Decent jobs/employment comprises formal employment and self-employment. ‘Decent’ aligns with the ILO definition, but in recognition of the challenges in many
markets to satisfy every criteria for ‘decent’, our Futuremakers initiative counts those participants who have met minimum wage plus at least two additional
ILO criteria
3 Young female participants remain in decent employment six months post intervention
4 Direct jobs comprise paid employment opportunities (direct employees, active associates, contractors, support/gig workers, and the entrepreneurs themselves)
directly created by the supported microbusinesses. These may be part-time or full-time, with each job accounted for as a single unit. This KPI will be based on
actual data collated from project alumni over the seven year period, robust estimates based on empirical research, and ex-post project evaluations.
Sustainability review
In 2024, we have enabled and supported 20,675 decent jobs1 Measuring broader societal impact
and contributed $18.4 million to Futuremakers, including To better understand the broader impact of our Futuremakers
donations from the Group and fundraising of $2.2 million investments, we have developed a refreshed approach to
from our employees and partners. impact measurement that builds on the direct outcomes of
our programmes to quantify the broader contribution to
Creating an inclusive ecosystem for decent work society. Using the model, and applying the results achieved
Almost 60 per cent of young people not in employment, in 2024, we found that more than 110,000 lives are estimated
education or training (NEET) are in the Group’s markets, to have been impacted by Futuremakers. We anticipate
with young women twice as likely as young men to be NEET2. that the insights from this analysis should enable us to
Our Futuremakers employability programmes prioritise these optimise how we allocate Futuremakers resources to enhance
disadvantaged groups, especially women and people with impact potential, as well as extend our learnings to our peers
disabilities, supporting them to gain the skills and networks and partners.
to access decent jobs.
Promoting skills-based volunteering
This year, with the Standard Chartered Foundation, we have
launched three-year employability programmes with strategic We have also sought to scale the impact of volunteering by
NGO partners, including the launch of the sports-based Goal strengthening skills-based volunteering. In 2024, 53 per cent
Accelerator programme in five markets – Malaysia, Mauritius, of colleagues volunteered to support various philanthropic
Pakistan, Sri Lanka and the UK, in partnership with Women causes and 114,276 hours were contributed to skills-based
Win. The programme aims to empower over 1,700 young volunteering which ranged from provision of financial
women with the life-skills, confidence and leadership education to local schools to coaching and mentoring
capabilities to enable them to access employment, generate Futuremakers participants. In 2025, we aim to further embed
a decent income and become economically resilient. skills-based volunteering opportunities into Futuremakers,
leveraging our colleagues’ unique skill sets to further deepen
To improve employability for people with disabilities via our community impact.
Futuremakers, we established a disability inclusion roadmap
with Sightsavers, one of our strategic NGO partners, to test Charitable giving
innovative models in Ghana, Kenya, Pakistan, Tanzania,
Uganda, and Zambia. This initial roadmap will provide 2024 2023 2022
insights to guide us in facilitating disability inclusion in all $million $ million $million
our programmes. Cash contributions 47.9 31.2 23.7
Through these and other investments, in 2024, over 24,000 Employee time
(non-cash item) 25.7 28.7 17.5
participants (58 per cent women and 9 per cent people with
disabilities) have established an employment plan, a key early Gifts in-kind (non-cash item)4 0.5 0.4 0.3
milestone in their employability journey. Management costs 5.2 5.4 5.0
In some of our markets, we support community healthcare, Total (direct contributions
climate, education and agricultural livelihood projects. by Group) 79.3 65.7 46.5
In 2024, for example, we supported eye health, WASHE Leverage5 2.7 2.9 4.8
(water, sanitation and hygiene education), education and
Total (including leverage) 82.0 68.6 51.3
youth employability projects in India, including the opening
of the fourth academy to promote primary eye care and Percentage of prior year
operating profit (PYOP) 1.6 1.6 1.5
train women to become optometrists.
Unlocking the potential of microbusinesses
Research by the International Finance Corporation
suggests that there is a $173 billion financing gap for female
microbusinesses in lower and middle-income countries3.
Our Futuremakers entrepreneurship programmes support
young entrepreneurs, mainly women, to achieve business
growth, build green and social microbusinesses, and create
much needed jobs in their communities.
Through the Futuremakers Women in Tech accelerator, we
enabled female microentrepreneurs in Africa, the Middle East
and the US to acquire the skills, resources, and networks they
need to start and grow their businesses. We have committed
$600,000 as part of a catalytic financing fund to support
eight high-potential tech-enabled businesses run by our
Women in Tech alumni.
In 2024, with the Standard Chartered Foundation, we have
launched three-year entrepreneurship programmes with
our strategic NGO partners and supported more than
14,000 microbusinesses to establish a business growth plan,
a key milestone in their entrepreneurship journey.
1 The data includes 7,425 young female participants in decent employment, where participants remain in decent employment six months post intervention,
and 13,250 direct jobs enabled by supported microbusinesses
2 ‘Global Employment Trends for Youth 2022: Investing in transforming futures for your people.’ Geneva: ILO, 2022
3 ‘MSME Finance Gap Report’, International Finance Corporation, 2017
4 Gifts in-kind: In-kind contributions of products, property or services valued at the cost to the Group
5 Leverage: fundraising from employees and partners benefitting the community
92 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 93
Sustainability
review
Managing Environmental
and Social Risk
We seek to proactively manage environmental and social risks and impacts arising from
the Group’s client relationships and transactions.
Our cross-sector Environmental and Social Risk Management Our approach is embedded into our credit approval process
(ESRM) Framework helps us apply international standards and supports us to work with our stakeholders to identify,
and best practices across all our markets. In the frontline, manage, mitigate and monitor the potential impacts that
our ESRM team within the CSO organisation oversees the stem from our financing decisions.
management of environmental and social risks associated
Our Position Statements, approved by the GRRRC, outline the
with our client relationships.
cross-sector and sector-specific criteria we apply to assess
For further information please refer to our ESRM Framework whether to provide financial services to our clients.
at sc.com/esriskframework
We use these statements – which draw on International
Finance Corporation Performance Standards, the Equator
Principles and global best practice – to assess environmental
and social risk related to our financing.
PPoosistiiotino Snt aStteamteenmtsents
Cross-sector Position Statements
Climate Change Human Rights Nature
Sector-specific Position Statements
Chemicals and
Agribusiness Extractive Industries
Manufacturing
Infrastructure
Power Generation Thermal Coal
and Transport
Prohibited Activities
We reviewed 1,449 clients and 747 transactions that presented During the year, we evolved our approach to Nature Risk
potential for elevated environmental and social risk in 2024. assessment. This included a loan book analysis to identify
If we find a material environmental and social issue, we take nature-related impacts and dependencies at sector, country
steps to proactively engage the client to mitigate identified and financial services levels. The Group’s cross-sector Nature
risks and impacts, and support and guide our clients to Position Statement provides a consolidated view of our
improve their environmental and social performance approach to managing Nature Risk across our business,
over time. operations and supply chain. Further information can be
However, for clients who do not meet our Position Statement found on page 90 of this report.
criteria, we may look to withdraw financial services and exit Read more about our Position Statements
the relationship if we cannot work with them to align over an at sc.com/positionstatements
agreed time frame. Our list of Prohibited Activities can be found
at sc.com/prohibitedactivities
In 2024, we completed the review and update of our Human
Our reporting against the Equator Principles can be found
Rights Position Statement.
at sc.com/equatorprinciples and in our ESG data pack at
sc.com/esg-data-pack
Sustainability review
Respecting human rights We will not enter into relationships with suppliers involved in
We are committed to respecting human rights across our human trafficking, modern slavery or forced labour. Suppliers
business. We recognise that the global nature of our that are identified as presenting higher risks of modern slavery
business may expose us to the risk of modern slavery and are subject to due diligence. Our Supplier Charter sets out
human trafficking in our operations, supply chain and client the principles for the behavioural standard that Standard
relationships and we are committed to managing and Chartered expects from its suppliers, and those within a
mitigating these risks. Our Modern Slavery Statement details supplier’s sphere of influence that assist them in performing
our approach and actions to manage modern slavery risks their obligations to us.
across our value chain.
Read our Supplier Charter at sc.com/suppliercharter
Read our Modern Slavery Statement at sc.com/modernslavery
Our Fair Pay Charter sets out the principles by which we seek
to deliver fair and competitive remuneration to all employees.
Our Position Statement on Human Rights is a key part of our
We use these principles to guide reward and performance
ESRM framework and was developed following engagement
decision-making globally, including how we set, structure and
with a range of internal and external stakeholders, including
deliver remuneration.
expert practitioners and civil society organisations. Like our
cross-sector Position Statements, the Human Rights Position Further information on our alignment to the Fair Pay Charter
Statement applies to our clients, suppliers and employees can be found on page 144 of this Annual Report and in our
2024 Diversity, Equality and Inclusion Report available at
and is regularly reviewed to ensure it addresses emerging
sc.com/diversityfairpayreport
risks and issues.
Due diligence is a central part of our approach in assessing
and managing risks associated with the provision of financial
services to our clients. We approach this due diligence in
accordance with our ESRM and Financial Crime Compliance
(FCC) frameworks.
Read more about our ESRM Framework and Position Statements at
sc.com/positionstatements
94 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 95
Sustainability
review
Integrity, conduct and ethics
We aim to live our valued behaviours, which are ‘Never settle’, ‘Better together’ and ‘Do the
right thing’ through our actions, decisions and interactions day-to-day with colleagues, clients
and the markets we serve.
Managing Conduct Risk is critical to delivering positive Our Group Conduct Risk Management Standard sets
outcomes for our clients, markets and stakeholders and minimum standards for the management of Conduct Risk
fundamental to achieving our brand promise, here for good. across our operations.
Conduct Risk may arise anywhere in the Group at any time.
The Group employs a risk-based, three lines of defence
The Group therefore expects all employees to be responsible
approach to Conduct Risk Management, where oversight,
for managing Conduct Risk given it is a transversal risk, which
governance and controls are proportionate to our assessment
means it impacts every aspect of the Group’s operations.
of the risk. We set target conduct outcomes that the Group
aspires to deliver for clients, external stakeholders, employees,
and the environment.
Code of Conduct and Ethics
The Code of Conduct and Ethics (the Code) remains the To reinforce our shared commitment to the highest
primary tool through which we communicate our conduct possible standards of conduct, each year we ask our
expectations. It is aligned with our Stands, strengthening the colleagues to reconsider what the Code means to them
link between ethics, culture, conduct and the Group’s strategy. through a refresher e-learning, and to reaffirm their
The Code is intended to be more than a guidance document: commitment. In 2024, 99.9 per cent of our colleagues
rather, it is a code to live by, designed to guide colleagues completed the mandatory training and affirmation
through how to live our valued behaviours on a day-to-day (99.8 per cent in 2023).
basis, whatever their business, function, region or role. To
Colleagues who are overdue without a valid reason
guide us in living conduct of the highest standards, the Code
are subject to a 25 per cent reduction in their annual
was shaped around 10 conduct outcomes we all strive to
variable compensation for the year they failed to attest.
deliver, and connects these to our culture, behaviour, and
ethics. The revamped Code e-learning was launched in April 99.9
2024. In June 2024, we celebrated Global Conduct Week. %
The event was about celebrating good conduct and seeing
our Code in action. of employees affirmed recommitment to our Code annually
Download our Code of Conduct and Ethics at
sc.com/codeofconductandethics and visit sc.com/speakingup
to find more about how our Speaking Up programme works
Speaking Up We marked the World Whistleblowers Day as part of the
Our Speaking Up Programme provides a safe, independent Conduct Week, where a panel discussion was held with the
and confidential way to report whistleblowing concerns. Group Independent Non-Executive Director and Whistleblowing
It is aimed at helping to build and maintain a strong ethical Champion. Colleagues were reminded about the Speaking Up
culture, with integrity, trust, and transparency. channels and the key pillars of our Speaking Up Programme,
namely: anonymity, confidentiality and no victimisation.
The early disclosure of concerns reduces the risk of financial
and reputational loss caused by misconduct. We encourage Visit our Speaking Up programme’s website sc.com/speakingup
colleagues, contractors, clients, suppliers and members of the
public to raise concerns through the Speaking Up channels.
These channels enable whistleblowing concerns to be raised The Speaking Up Programme continues to be utilised
in various ways, such as via email, a web portal, a telephone across all countries, businesses and functions, and our
hotline (where available), or by speaking to someone in their 2024 My Voice survey found that there continued to be a
line management, who may or may not be their usual People high degree of confidence in the Programme. 87 per cent
Leader (available for employees only). When a concern is of employees felt comfortable raising concerns through
raised, our Shared Investigative Services team will determine the Speaking Up channels (88 per cent in 2023). Each
whether the matter is a Speaking Up disclosure or if it is an year, the Board reviews a Speaking Up report, which
out-of-scope disclosure. provides an overview of the effectiveness of the Group
Speaking Up Programme. For the period July 2023 to June
Throughout 2024, we hosted a series of awareness campaigns
2024 there was a 1 per cent increase in disclosures volume
to ensure that we continue to create an environment where
compared to the prior 12 months. There was a 1 per cent
everyone feels secure and empowered to speak up. The
decrease in the proportion of employees who opted to
Global Conduct Week was held from 24 to 28 June, themed
remain anonymous when reporting disclosures.
‘A Code to live by’, to celebrate good conduct, reinforce our
valued behaviours and promote the importance of ethics, 87
trust and integrity. All interactive panels were aimed to %
encourage colleagues to think about how their decisions and
individual actions on a daily basis can aggregate to a much of employees in our My Voice survey felt comfortable raising
wider impact on outcomes for our clients, customers and concerns through Speaking Up channels
other stakeholders.
Sustainability review
Fighting financial crime
Access to the financial system helps transform lives around We have invested significantly to ensure our employees
the world, helping to reduce poverty and spur economic are properly equipped to combat financial crime.
development. But the financial system is also used by those In 2024, 99.8 per cent of colleagues and governance
involved in some of today’s most damaging crimes – from body members completed financial crime mandatory
human trafficking to terrorism, corruption, and the drug trade. e-learnings which cover topics such as ABC, AML
Our ambition is to help tackle these crimes by making the including terrorist financing, sanctions, tax evasion and
financial system a hostile environment for criminals and fraud topics (Asia: 99.8 per cent, AME: 99.9 per cent,
terrorists. We have no appetite for breaches in laws and EA: 99.9 per cent, governance body members: 100 per
regulations related to financial crime. cent). This compares with 99.9 per cent in 2023.
Our Compliance, Financial Crime and Conduct Risk (CFCR) 99.8
team sets our Financial Crime Risk management framework. %
We seek to protect our clients and communities against
money laundering (AML), terrorist financing, sanctions, fraud, of colleagues and governance members completed financial
and other risks, by applying core controls such as client crime mandatory e-learnings1.
due-diligence, screening and monitoring, and strengthening 1 Governance body members represent Bill Winters and Diego De
our people’s understanding as to how to identify, manage and Giorgi. Colleagues represent permanent employees of the Group as
mitigate such risks. In addition, anti-bribery, and corruption well as fixed-term workers employed by the Group for a fixed period.
(ABC) controls aim to prevent colleagues, or third parties
working on our behalf, from engaging in bribery or corruption.
Our mission doesn’t stop at our door. We’re teaming up with
banks, governments, and regulators around the world to raise
the bar across the industry. Throughout 2024, we actively
participated in industry groups, including the Wolfsberg
Group of global banks, Madison Group and UK Finance.
We also launched a number of financial crime transformation
initiatives focused on technology and process capability.
The identification and analysis of criminal networks utilising
various money laundering typologies; for example, money
mules and shell companies, continues to be a focus, with
the proactive use of data to support early detection
and prevention.
Our public–private partnerships are aimed at producing new
insights about various criminal typologies and advances in
how we collectively combat financial crime in an increasing
number of jurisdictions, including Singapore, Hong Kong,
South Africa, India, the UK, USA and UAE.
Sanctions on Russia remain a significant area of focus. In 2024,
the attention has been on multilateral and multiagency
measures to prevent evasion or circumvention of sanctions
and export controls on Russia.
For those in high-risk roles and functions, we delivered
additional training across all financial crime areas, including
in-depth awareness on Russia sanctions, ABC training for
targeted roles, training on tax evasion risks, trade AML,
financial crime risks in fintech and digital assets, and money
laundering risks concerned with money mules and shell
companies. We also delivered a new targeted training
module covering ESG and ABC risk, ‘Managing Proliferation
Financing Risk and Country AML Handbook’. In addition,
masterclasses and forums were held to deepen understanding.
This was further supported by our Group-wide financial crime
awareness campaign, ‘The Whole Story’, which aimed to
raise employee awareness of the real-life impact of financial
crime. The theme for 2024 was ‘Staying one step ahead in
the fight against financial crime’. It emphasised the need to
continuously reinvigorate and recharge the fight against
financial crime through staying abreast of new technologies,
and building partnerships with government bodies, regulators,
and our peers to strengthen our collective defences.
In 2024, no legal cases concluded in which allegations
of corruption had been made against the Group or
its employees.
96 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 97
Sustainability
review
Responsible lending and fair treatment of retail The Group’s credit policies outline the expectations on the
customers in our Wealth & Retail Banking Group’s Collections teams, which include the following:
(WRB) segment • Providing a fair and reasonable treatment regarding any
The Board of Directors provides oversight of the Group’s allowed concession or waiver
treatment of WRB retail customers through its reporting and • Aligning calling and visitation hours to local regulations
committee structures. The relevant governance forum or Risk and practices
Committee is required to challenge the business for any new
• Having all customer interactions with the Collections teams,
or material product proposals prior to the commencement
complaints and feedback monitored and regularly reviewed
of the product approval process, and there are periodic
• Offering temporary or permanent modifications to loan
governance forums to monitor customer complaints and
terms when required
collections effectiveness.
All Collections employees responsible for dealing with
Escalations may be taken to the WRB Risk Committee chaired
customers in financial distress are required to be trained
by the WRB Chief Risk Officer or the Group Risk Committee
prior to commencement of collection activities, and in
chaired by the Group Chief Risk Officer, and ultimately to the
particular, are required to understand the Group’s Code of
Group’s Board and Board Risk Committee.
Conduct and Ethics. Existing employees also undergo regular
Complaints management training in dealing with customers who are undergoing
financial hardship, and communications guidance is regularly
Formal avenues are established for WRB customers to lodge
updated to reflect common circumstances encountered in
complaints. A complaints-handling process has been put in
our markets. Where external collections agencies are utilised,
place to enable the proper receipt, acknowledgement and
these agencies undergo assessment and due diligence in
independent and effective handling of complaints, which are
accordance with Group sourcing standards and their staff
to be resolved and notified to customers within a reasonable
must undertake the same training as the Group’s internal
turnaround time without compromising the quality of the review.
Collections teams.
Global key complaints insights, trends and root causes are
provided to the WRB Risk Committee. Examples of key metrics Loan modifications
that are used to track and manage complaints across WRB Loan modification options that may be offered to our
markets include: total number of complaints received in the customers in accordance with local regulations and the
period split by type and root cause, including sub-categories Group’s internal credit policies, which take into account the
such as potentially inappropriate sales, proven mis-selling or most recently available information on the customer’s income,
fraud, and percentage of complaints resolved within the pre- expenditures and circumstances. Collections staff managing
determined turnaround time. these arrangements are trained to discuss options thoroughly
with customers in order that any restructured payments, if
Collections agreed, are affordable.
Second line of defense oversight and governance of WRB
retail collections are performed by the WRB Risk function,
with regular reviews of performance metrics and complaints-
handling data. Across the Group, while the approach may
vary across markets in line with local regulations, programmes
to assist retail banking borrowers in financial distress are
handled by the Collections teams.
Sustainability review
Sustainability governance
Sustainability-related risks, opportunities and organisational implications are overseen
by the Group’s Board, Management Team and supporting sub-committees.
Board oversight of sustainability and climate- roadmap. The GMT committees hold the ultimate decision-
related risks and opportunities making authority over all material sustainability initiatives
and can direct actions as necessary for areas of improvement
The Board is responsible for the long-term success of the Group
to ensure their effective implementation. This includes
and its strategy. Embedding sustainability across our business is
ensuring the effective management of Climate Risk and the
a key strategic priority for the Group, and ultimate responsibility
net zero roadmap in support of the Group’s strategy, as well
for this sits with the Board. Oversight is exercised through the
as overseeing Risk Appetite metrics.
appointment of supporting committees which consider
sustainability- and climate-related risks and opportunities The responsibility for the Group’s risk management approach
when reviewing and guiding strategic decisions. Through these and overall second line of defence for Climate Risk sits with
sub-committees the Board has oversight of the progress the GCRO as the appropriate Senior Management Function
against the Group’s external commitments, Sustainability under the Senior Managers Regime. The GCRO is supported
Aspirations and delivery against key sustainability priorities by the Global Head, Enterprise Risk Management, who has
including sustainable finance, Position Statements, human day-to-day oversight responsibility for Climate Risk.
rights and community engagement Throughout 2024, Board
The structure of the Group’s Board and Management Team can be
activities have included reviewing and guiding strategic found on pages 105 to 112
decisions on our approach to reach net zero financed emissions
by 2050. Since 2019, the Board has approved a Climate Risk Supporting governance
Appetite Statement annually to reflect our aim to measure
The oversight and management of sustainability- and
and manage the financial and non-financial risks arising from
climate-related risks and opportunities are an integral part
climate change and to reduce emissions related to the Group’s
of our business management, involving several executive
own activities, including those associated with providing
committees. These committees operate under their terms
financial services to clients, in line with the Paris Agreement.
of reference, delineating responsibilities, decision-making
Further, to reflect the combined Climate Risk and Reputational
process, authority and the escalation route for any material
and Sustainability Risk, a combined Risk Appetite Statement
issues. Additionally, a number of teams across our business,
will be in effect for a comprehensive coverage in 2025.
risk and functional areas are either dedicated to, or spend
a proportion of their time, working on sustainability- and
Management-level governance
climate-related activities. We are also expanding governance
Supporting the Board in its strategic decisions is the Group and risk management at the regional, country and segment
Management Team (GMT) and its supporting committees. levels to better identify and manage climate-related risks
Each member of the GMT is responsible for strategically and opportunities.
driving sustainability considerations within their geography,
business segment or function in line with our net zero
Structural overview of Standard Chartered PLC’s sustainability- and climate-related governance
Board oversight of sustainability- and climate-related risks and opportunities
Standard Chartered PLC Board
Culture and Sustainability
Board Risk Committee (BRC) Audit Committee (AC)
Committee (CSC)
Management-level governance
Group Management Team
Group Risk Committee Group Responsibility and Sustainability Executive Committee
(GRC) Reputational Risk Committee (GRRRC) (Sustainability ExCo)
Supporting governance
Executive committees
Climate Risk Management Sustainable Finance Governance Sustainability Operating Steering
Committee (CRMC) Committee (SFGC) Committee (SOSC)
98 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 99
Sustainability
review
Governance committees and steering groups
Several committees and steering groups support the Group’s Board and Management Team on the management
and monitoring of sustainability and climate-related risks and opportunities, and associated impacts on our business
and for our key stakeholders.
Agenda frequency
Governance body Chair and inputs Roles and responsibilities Topics covered in 2024
Standard Group Annual Strategy • Oversight of the Group’s • Considered the core role of sustainability
Chartered PLC Chairman Review 2024 sustainability strategy, with input as part of the annual strategy discussion
Board Annual from the Culture and Sustainability as it is more deeply embedded across
Sustainability Committee the business
Strategy Update • Approved Climate Risk Appetite
Climate Risk Statement and Board-level Risk
updates delivered Appetite metrics
through the Group • Endorsed the 2025 sustainability
CRO report priorities
• Received an update on the Group’s
sustainability strategy, including progress
against the four sustainability strategic
pillars, the Group’s scorecard metrics and
public sustainability commitments
• Approved the 2023 Modern Slavery
Statement, detailing the steps taken to
manage the risk of modern slavery in the
business and its supply chain
• Received updates on ESG Risk through
the Group CRO reports
Board Risk Independent Climate Risk • Provide oversight of the Group’s • Reviewed, discussed and challenged:
Committee Non- updates are key risks on behalf of the Board (i) a combined update on the Group’s
(BRC) Executive provided to BRC and is the primary risk committee progress on embedding ESGR risks
Director in Group CRO at Board level that oversees (including climate and greenwashing
reports six times a Climate Risk related risks) within our client businesses
year. Additionally, • Consider the Group’s Risk Appetite and own operations;
one standalone and make recommendations to (ii) integration of ESGR Risk into
update on ESGR the Board on the Climate Risk corporate planning and business
Risk provided in Appetite Statement strategy;
December 2024.
• Assess risk types (including (iii) development of the Group’s internal
Climate Risk) and the effectiveness modelling and stress testing capabilities;
of risk management frameworks and
and policies
(iv) key focus areas for 2025.
• Provide oversight and challenge
• Reviewed Climate Risk Information
the design and execution of
Report quarterly
climate-related Group-wide
enterprise stress tests mandated • Monitored adherence to RA metrics
by a regulator
Audit Committee Independent Updated annually • Responsible for oversight of the • Reviewed changes to the climate and
(AC) Non- in Q4 and more Group’s financial and non-financial greenhouse gas emissions-related
Executive frequently if reporting, internal controls, audit quantitative disclosures to be reported in
Director any material and whistleblowing systems this Annual Report, and the key controls
disclosures are and controls around those quantitative disclosures
made outside
of the Group’s
Annual Report
Culture and Independent Four times in 2024 • Review the Group’s overall • Reviewed and discussed the Group’s
Sustainability Non- Sustainability Strategy Sustainability Strategy
Committee Executive • Review progress against the • Reviewed progress on the Group’s net
(CSC) Director Group’s external commitments, zero roadmap
Sustainability Aspirations and • Discussed and endorsed the approach
delivery against key sustainability to baseline and target the agriculture
priorities sector
• Monitor the implementation and • Received nature-related training
delivery of the Group’s public
• Reviewed and endorsed the Group’s
commitment to net zero emissions
Transition Plan
by 2050
• Discussed and endorsed the oil and gas
• Monitor emerging sustainability
facilitated emissions target
issues that require Board-level
oversight and/or external • Considered a progress update on the
stakeholder engagement Group’s Sustainability Aspirations and
endorsed four new KPIs
• Monitor progress against the ESG
Ratings Strategy Roadmap • Reviewed, challenged and endorsed the
proposed changes to the Human Rights
• Review sustainability measures
Position Statement (HRPS)
included in the Group annual
and/or long-term incentive plan • Monitored the Group’s performance on
(LTIP) scorecards the prioritised external ratings agencies
Sustainability review
Agenda frequency
Governance body Chair and inputs Roles and responsibilities Topics covered in 2024
Group Risk Group Chief Climate Risk • Oversee the effective • Received updates on RA, portfolio risks,
Committee Risk Officer updates were implementation of the Enterprise recent NGO activity and regulatory
(GRC) (GCRO)1 provided to GRC in Risk Management Framework updates via Group CRO Report
Group CRO report (“ERMF”) for the Group, including • Received an update on Reputational
11 times during the delegation of any part of its and Sustainability Risk materiality
2024. Additionally, authorities to appropriate assessment, Environmental and Social
three ad hoc individuals or properly constituted Risk Assessments and ESGR Risk by PRT
meetings committees below the GRC as part of the Group Risk Information
• Review Risk Appetite (RA) for all Report
Principal Risk Types (PRT) including • Received an update on RA MT Limit
Climate Risk across the Group, to and Board RA metrics and monitored
ensure that this is within the adherence to these
approved Board RA and
Management Team (MT) limits
Group GCRO¹ Fourteen times in • Oversee and approve Position Reviewed and approved:
Responsibility 2024 Statements including sector- • Exposure to clients that do not comply
and specific and cross-sector with enhanced environmental and
Reputational statements including Climate Risk social criteria
Risk Committee • Oversee reputational and • Transactions where Position Statement
(GRRRC) sustainability-related RA metrics criteria are not fully met
• Provide visibility of potentially very • Transactions with high or very high
high or high ESGR matter Reputational Risk with climate change
escalations to the Board Risk factors and decisions on whether to
Committee as relevant decline transactions or not
• Make decisions on clients and • The process for net zero portfolio steering
transactions which are assessed and governance, including:
as High or Very-High based on
(i) evaluating clients’ transition plans;
the Group’s Reputational Risk
Materiality Assessment Matrix (ii) refreshed financed emissions data for
clients in sectors where the Group has set
net zero targets; and
(iii) ongoing approach to net zero
portfolio management.
• Updates for cross-sector and sector-
specific Position Statements
Sustainability Chief Five times in 2024 • Hold ultimate decision-making Reviewed and approved:
Executive Sustainability authority over all material • New net zero sector target for agriculture
Committee Officer (CSO) sustainability initiatives as and facilitated emissions target for the
(Sustainability delegated by the Group most material sector, oil and gas
ExCo) Management Team
• Announcement of a forward methane
• Direct actions as necessary for commitment
areas of improvement to ensure
• Approval of the Group’s Sustainability
the effective implementation of
Aspirations
sustainability initiatives
• Group’s Transition Plan
• Review findings and escalations
from delegated committees • Group’s prioritised ESG ratings
(including but not limited to the Discussed:
Sustainability Operating Steering
• The Group’s NGO engagements
Committee)
• Early coal decommissioning approach
• Oversee the net zero programme
• Lifting Participation LTIP metrics
1 Following Tracey McDermott’s retirement as Group Head, Conduct, Financial Crime and Compliance at the end of 2024, Group Chief Risk Officer, Sadia Ricke,
assumed overall Group Management Team oversight for the CFCR function in January 2025, and succeeded Tracey McDermott as Chair of the GRRRC.
See page 112 for more detail on the Management Team
100 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 101
Sustainability
review
Agenda frequency
Governance body Chair and inputs Roles and responsibilities Topics covered in 2024
Climate Risk Global Head, Seven times in 2024 • Oversee the effective Drove delivery of:
Management Enterprise Risk implementation of the Group’s • Climate-related Group-wide
Committee Management Climate Risk workplan, including stress testing and management
(CRMC) relevant regulatory requirements. scenario analysis
• Provide challenge and recommend • Progress associated with
Climate Risk-related Enterprise integrating Climate Risk across
Stress Test results all impacted risk types
• Review, challenge and provide • Climate Risk-related external
feedback on external disclosures disclosures, including those
such as Climate Risk-related discussed in this report
financial disclosures, including
• Regulatory feedback and
those set out by the TCFD
supervision
• Monitor and challenge the Climate
• Climate-related management
Risk and net zero profile of the
information and Risk Appetite
Group within Risk Appetite
metrics
• Approval of methodology
• Approach to delivering training
changes to the net zero baselining
and upskilling staff on Climate Risk
and associated targets for
across the Group
existing sectors
• Oversight on the development,
• Review and approval of any new
ownership, as well as the results
net zero sector target
of Climate Risk models in scope
• Oversight of progress towards
2030 targets for automotive
manufacturing, steel and
agriculture sectors
Sustainable Head, Global At least six times • Provide leadership, governance Reviewed and approved:
Finance Sustainability a year and oversight in delivering the • Sustainable finance products
Governance Engagement Group’s sustainable finance including sustainable cash products,
Committee and Disclosures offerings sustainable trade finance products
(SFGC) • Review and endorse sustainable and sustainable finance wealth and
finance products retail products
• Guide the Group in identifying • Green and sustainable finance
opportunities in sustainable finance transactions including transactions
and managing the greenwashing with climate-related key
risks relating to sustainable finance performance indicators
• The Group’s GSPF, encompassing a
range of climate finance activities
• The Group’s TFF outlining our
approach to defining transition
activities
• The Group’s approach to pureplay
clients which align to the Group’s
GSPF and TFF
Sustainability Head Strategic Monthly (minimum • Central forum where all strategic • Enforced accountability and
Operating Initiatives, eight per year) priorities related to sustainability fostered collaboration across the
Steering Sustainable are consolidated, prioritised and Group to operationalise the Group’s
Committee Finance agreed upon net zero plan requirements and the
(SOSC) • Oversee and monitor milestones broader sustainability agenda
and deliverables of sustainability • Advanced the pan-bank data and
initiatives digital strategy and capabilities to
• Ensure sustainability investment embed sustainability into the client
budget is centrally prioritised and deal lifecycle
and allocated to business’ and • Provided updates on advancement
functions’ quarterly performance within the Group’s Innovation Hubs
reviews
• Be a forum for escalation and
decision-making
Visit our Committees website to view the terms of reference for our five
board committees sc.com/committees
Sustainability review
Incentive structure Long-term incentive plan (LTIP)
Variable remuneration is based on measurable performance LTIP awards are granted to members of the Group
criteria linked to the Group’s strategy, including our Management Team and may also be granted to other
sustainability-related goals and targets, which is overseen by employees in the Group. Sustainability measures continue to
the Culture and Sustainability and Remuneration Committees. be included in the 2025-27 LTIP, streamlined to focus on our net
zero pathway as follows:
Annual incentive Sustainability continues to be included in the 2025-27 LTIP
The Group scorecard, which contains financial and strategic streamlined to focus on our net zero pathway as follows:
measures, is a key input in determining the Group’s variable
• Accelerating zero: progress towards our 2030 sustainable
remuneration pool. Sustainability-related measures were
finance mobilisation target in each of the three
included in the 2024 Group scorecard and continue to be
performance years.
included in the 2025 Group scorecard related to:
• Net zero decarbonisation: reducing our financed
Sustainability-related measures continue to be included in the
emissions for key sectors being assessed on annual
2025 Group scorecard related to:
year-on-year emission reductions.
• Growing sustainable finance income in our Corporate &
Investment Banking network and social lending in Further details can be found in the Directors’ remuneration report
Wealth & Retail Banking. on pages 143-181
• Net zero decarbonisation: reducing our financed
emissions for key sectors in line with our risk appetite.
• Reducing Scope 1 and 2 emissions in line with our
operational net zero by 2025 target.
Key individuals or teams with climate-related objectives which impact variable remuneration
In addition to the Group scorecard and LTIP performance measures, dedicated climate and sustainability-related objectives
apply across functional and regional scorecards including the Risk function, and individual objectives add a further link between
sustainability outcomes and reward.
Individual or team Objectives/performance linkage
Group Members of the Group MT are eligible for an annual incentive based on the outcome of our Group scorecard and
Management an LTIP award which both include sustainability-related measures. Further details can be found on pages 143 to
Team (MT) 181 of this Annual Report.
Group Chief Risk The GCRO is responsible for the overall second line of defence for Climate Risk as the appropriate Senior
Officer (CRO) Management Function under the Senior Managers Regime. The GCRO is supported by the Global Head,
Enterprise Risk Management, who has day-to-day oversight responsibility for Climate Risk.
Chief The CSO is responsible for setting and driving the Group’s sustainability strategy, including delivering on the
Sustainability Group’s public sustainability commitments. The CSO organisation houses the Group’s sustainability strategy,
Officer (CSO) net zero delivery, strategic initiatives, Innovation Hubs and environmental and social risk management (ESRM)
teams. Performance measures for the CSO include progress against the delivery of the Group’s net zero roadmap
and sustainable finance targets.
Global Head of The Global Head of Supply Chain Management is responsible for ensuring and overseeing the delivery of supply
Supply Chain chain emissions reductions and climate-related objectives and plans in partnership with contract owners across
Management the Group. This includes baselining our supply chain emissions related to products and services, supply chain
emissions disclosures, and the implementation of plans to reduce supply chain-related emissions and managing
climate risks in partnership with our suppliers.
Global Head of The Global Head of CRES is responsible for delivering on our aim to reach net zero emissions in our Scope 1 and
Corporate Real Scope 2 emissions by 2025.
Estate Services
(CRES)
All employees Selected sustainability-related targets are incorporated into our annual Group scorecard which determines
annual incentives for the majority of our employees.
102 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Directors’ report Group Chairman’s governance overview
Group Chairman’s governance overview
“G overnance is about
doing the right things,
at the right times,
and being vigilant.”
Before I began to write what is my final corporate governance report dealing with cyber security threats for a number of years and
to you as Chairman, I took some time to look back across my reports continues to do so. On other occasions, directors attend technical
and reflect on our journey. training sessions and meetings are arranged with individual
directors to take them through areas and issues they may not
In 2016, my first report set out a few aims for my stewardship of the
have encountered before.
Group. Some of these related to its governance and included my
commitment to make the Group more resilient to external shocks, Now turning to this year, the Board visited Shanghai, Mumbai and
to ensure excellent governance and the highest ethical standards. Nairobi to get a better understanding on the ground of the significant
potential in these dynamic markets. In addition, many directors made
Governance is about doing the right things, at the right times and
individual trips to visit the business in a number of other markets.
being vigilant. Many of my subsequent reports referred to navigating
Each visit presented opportunities for directors to engage with our
the geopolitical environment, tackling financial crime and managing
colleagues, clients, suppliers, regulators and other stakeholders.
increasing cyber threats. While those categories might have
We enjoyed every moment and are grateful for the warmth of the
remained the same, the underlying threats continue to evolve rapidly.
receptions we received and time of everyone we met.
We monitored them closely, inviting internal and external experts to
The Board has focused heavily on the preparation of a new
discuss their opinions and predictions with the Board at specially
Remuneration Policy, which will be put to shareholders at the
arranged sessions throughout my tenure. The speakers included
AGM. We have engaged extensively with our investors and other
some of the world’s most eminent economists, central bankers,
stakeholders and I am very grateful for their time and advice.
regulators, politicians, business leaders and technology experts.
You will be able to read much more about this in our Directors'
The Management Team are invited to many of these events and
remuneration report on page 143 to 173..
the outcomes helped improve the resilience of the Group and shape
our strategy. I was very sorry to say goodbye to David Conner, who retired from
the Board after completing his nine-year term in December 2024.
In 2018, the dynamism of geopolitics was such that the Group
David is the last of the non-executives who were in place when
established an International Advisory Council (IAC) made of experts
I arrived, and I want to thank him for his many significant contributions
drawn from a number of disciplines from around the World. The IAC
during our shared journey. We welcomed Lincoln Leong to the Board
meets regularly to share their views on world developments and their
in November 2024 and I am pleased to report that he is settling in well
potential impacts on the Group. It is currently chaired by Robert
and already proving a valuable addition.
Zoellick, the former President of the World Bank and remains as
important to our strategic thinking today as it was at its inception. We completed our board and committee reviews, which recognised a
number of achievements and areas for improvement. You can read
Early in my tenure, sustainability featured regularly on Board agendas.
more about these and a range of other topics in the rest of this report.
In 2018, the Group committed to cease new funding for coal fired
power stations. By 2021, the rapidly increasing focus on sustainability, You have an exceptional Board who work exceptionally hard for you.
and climate in particular, saw the establishment of a Board The Board has made an exceptional choice in choosing Maria as
committee which included sustainability as a key part of its remit. my successor and I have every confidence that it will flourish under
This year, I was very proud that the Group announced that it had her leadership.
completed its final position statement on the 12 highest carbon
I am proud of what we have achieved over the past nine years and
emitting sectors. In preparing these statements, we have made some
thank you for your consistent support during my tenure. I look forward
difficult choices to promote a just transition for all our communities.
to the Board helping the Group to continue to deliver long-term value
You can read more about this in the Culture and Sustainability
to shareholders and other stakeholders.
Committee report on pages 134 to 136.
Occasionally, I am asked how a Board of 12 or so people are able to
oversee an organisation as complex, dynamic and with the
geographic spread of Standard Chartered. Of course, we cannot
expect our Board to have expertise in every market or issue faced by
the Group but nevertheless recognise our duty to provide oversight
of the whole business and constructive challenge to Management.
Dr José Viñals
Where we have needed an additional specific area of expertise for
Group Chairman
a sustained period, we have appointed Board advisers. Paul Khoo,
a former head of Interpol, advised the Board for many years on the 21 February 2025
Group’s approach to financial crime. Sir Iain Lobban, a former head
of GCHQ, has advised the Board on the Management’s strategy for
104 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 105
Directors’
report
Board of Directors Committee key A Audit Committee
Ri Board Risk Committee
S Culture and Sustainability Committee
N Governance and Nomination Committee
R Remuneration Committee
Denotes Committee Chair
Dr José Viñals (70) Skills and experience José has substantial Relations Committee at the European
Group Chairman experience in the international regulatory Central Bank, member of the Economic
arena and an exceptional understanding and Financial Committee of the European
Appointed October 2016 and Group of the economic, financial and political Union, and chair of the Working Group
Chairman in December 2016. José was dynamics of our markets and of global trade. on Institutional Investors at the Bank for
appointed to the Court of Standard International Settlements.
Chartered Bank in April 2019. Career Until 2016, José was the Financial
Counsellor and the Director of the Monetary External appointments José is Co-Chair
Nationality: Spanish and Capital Markets Department at the of the United Nations’ Alliance of Global
Based in the UK International Monetary Fund (IMF). He was Investors for Sustainable Development.
the IMF’s chief spokesperson on financial He is a board member of the Institute
matters, including global financial stability. of International Finance and a member
During his tenure, José was a member of of the board of directors of the Bretton
the Plenary and Steering Committee of the Woods Committee. He is also a member
Financial Stability Board. Prior to the IMF, of the Leadership Council of TheCityUK,
José began his career as an economist and a member of the Business Advisory Group
as a member of the faculty at Stanford to the Director General of the World
University, before going to the Central Trade Organization, a member of the
Bank of Spain, where he was the Deputy World Economic Forum’s Community of
Governor. He is a past President of the Chairpersons and a board member of the
International Monetary Conference. José Social Progress Imperative.
has held many other board and advisory
Committees
positions, including chair of Spain’s Deposit
Guarantee Fund, chair of the International N
Bill Winters (63) Skills and experience Bill is a career banker England’s liquidity operations. In 2011, Bill
Group Chief Executive with significant frontline global banking founded Renshaw Bay, an alternative
experience and a proven track record of asset management firm, where he was
Appointed June 2015. Bill was also leadership and financial success. Chairman and CEO. He stepped down on
appointed to the Court of Standard appointment to the Standard Chartered
Chartered Bank in June 2015. Career Bill began his career with JP PLC Board. Bill was previously a non-
Morgan, where he went on to become
executive director of Pension Insurance
Nationality: US/British one of its top five executives and later Co-
Corporation plc and RIT Capital Partners
Based in the UK Chief Executive Officer at the investment
plc. He received a CBE in 2013.
bank from 2004 until 2009. Bill was invited
to be a committee member of the UK External appointments Bill is an
Independent Commission on Banking to independent non-executive director of
recommend ways to improve competition Novartis International AG, an Advisory
and financial stability in banking. Group Member of the Integrity Council
Subsequently, he served as an adviser for Voluntary Carbon Markets and a
to the UK Parliamentary Commission on Board Advisor to the International
Banking Standards and was asked by the Rescue Committee.
Court of the Bank of England to complete
an independent review of the Bank of
Diego De Giorgi (54) Skills and experience Diego has more than Diego was the Co-Chief Executive of
Group Chief Financial Officer three decades of experience in the global Pegasus Europe, Europe’s largest-ever
financial services sector, working with special purpose acquisition company,
Appointed January 2024. Diego was also clients across the UK, Europe, the US, Asia, which was focused on the financial
appointed to the Court of Standard the Middle East and Africa. services sector and was listed on
Chartered Bank in January 2024. Euronext Amsterdam.
Career Diego spent 18 years at Goldman
Nationality: Italian Sachs, with leadership roles in the Equity External appointments Diego sits on
Based in the UK Capital Markets Group and the Financial the Board of the MIB Trieste School of
Institutions Group before becoming the Management.
Chief Operating Officer for the Global
Investment Banking division. Following this,
he moved to Bank of America Merrill Lynch,
where he spent six years, rising to Head
of Global Investment Banking. He served
as a non-executive director at UniCredit
and a member of their Compensation
Committee in 2020 and 2021. From 2021,
Corporate governance
Standard The Board The Board is responsible for the governance, strategic direction and performance of the Group and the
Chartered PLC delivery of sustainable value within a framework of prudent and effective controls to which the Group’s culture is
aligned. The Board is responsible for the Group’s engagement with key stakeholders and for considering their views
and interests during Board discussions and decision-making. It is responsible for overseeing the Group’s conduct
and affairs and for promoting its long-term sustainable success. Under its Terms of Reference, the Board has
direct responsibility for certain matters, including approval of the Group’s long-term objectives, purpose, valued
behaviours, culture and commercial strategy. In other areas, it delegates responsibilities to its committees in
order to ensure effective independent oversight and scrutiny of those matters and receives reports from them
at Board meetings.
Key governance roles
Board Chairman Our Group Chairman, José Viñals, is responsible for leading the Board, ensuring its effectiveness
and, together with the Group Chief Executive, developing and embedding the Group’s culture. The Chairman
promotes high standards of integrity and governance across the Group and ensures effective communication
and understanding between the Board, management, shareholders and other stakeholders.
Senior Independent Director Our Senior Independent Director, Maria Ramos, provides a sounding board for
the Group Chairman. Her role includes serving as an intermediary for the other directors where necessary and
undertaking the performance evaluation of the Chairman. Maria is available to shareholders if they have concerns
that the Chairman, Chief Executive or other executive directors are not able to resolve or for which the normal
channels would be inappropriate. She can be contacted via the Group Company Secretary at 1 Basinghall Avenue,
London EC2V 5DD.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee is responsible for oversight and review of matters relating to financial Read more
reporting, the Group’s internal controls, including internal financial controls, and the work on page 123
undertaken by the Compliance, Financial Crime & Conduct Risk function, Group Internal Audit
(GIA) and the Group’s Statutory Auditor, Ernst & Young LLP (EY).
Board Risk The Board Risk Committee is responsible for oversight and review of the Group’s Risk Appetite Read more
Committee Statement, the appropriateness and effectiveness of the Group’s risk management systems and on page 129
the principal risks, including Climate Risk, to the Group’s business. Furthermore, it considers the
implications of material regulatory change proposals and due diligence on material acquisitions
and disposals.
Culture and The Culture and Sustainability Committee (CSC) is responsible for oversight and review of the Read more
Sustainability Group’s culture and sustainability priorities. on page 134
Committee
Governance and The Governance and Nomination Committee is responsible for oversight and review of Board Read more
Nomination and executive succession, overall Board effectiveness and corporate governance issues across on page 137
Committee the Group.
Remuneration The Remuneration Committee is responsible for oversight and review of remuneration, share Read more
Committee plans and other incentives. on page 143
With the exception of the Governance and Nomination Committee (where the Group Chairman is its Chair), all of the Board
committees are composed of independent non-executive directors (INEDs).
Group Chief The Board delegates authority for the operational management of the Group’s business to the
Executive Group Chief Executive for further delegation by him in respect of matters that are necessary for
the effective day-to-day running and management of the business. The Board holds the Group
Chief Executive accountable in discharging his delegated responsibilities.
Management The Management Team comprises the Group Chief Executive and the Group Chief Financial Read more
Team Officer, client segment CEOs and our global function heads. It has responsibility for the day-to- on page 110
day management of the Group and for executing its strategy.
Terms of Reference for the Board and each committee are in place to provide clarity over where responsibility for decision-making lies. These are reviewed
annually against industry best practice, corporate governance provisions and guidance, and relevant regulatory rules. Our Terms of Reference are available
on our website at sc.com/ourpeople
The biographies of each director are set out on pages 105 to 109. The roles of the Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive are distinct from one another and
are clearly defined in detailed role descriptions which can be viewed at sc.com/roledescriptions
Corporate Governance Compliance Statement
The directors are pleased to confirm that the Company continued to comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 (UK Code) and the
Hong Kong Corporate Governance Code contained in Appendix C1 of the Hong Kong Listing Rules (HK Code) for the whole of the year under
review. In this report, which constitutes our corporate governance report, we share insights into how governance operates within the Group and
how we have applied the principles set out in the UK Code and HK Code. Copies of the UK Code and the HK Code can be found at frc.org.uk and
hkex.com.hk respectively.
The Group confirms that it has adopted a code of conduct regarding directors’ securities transactions by directors on terms no less exacting than
required by Appendix C3 of the Hong Kong Listing Rules. Having made specific enquires of all directors, the Group confirms that all directors have
complied with the required standards of the adopted code of conduct.
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 113
Directors’
report
Directors’ report Corporate governance
Board activities during 2024
January February March April May June July August September October November December
London Shanghai London Mumbai London London Nairobi
Key: Scheduled meeting Informal session AGM
Attendance at Board meetings in 2024
Attendance
AGM Scheduled
José Viñals (Group Chairman) Y 8/8
Bill Winters (Group Chief Executive) Y 8/8
Diego De Giorgi (Group Chief Financial Officer) Y 8/8
David Conner Y 8/8
Gay Huey Evans, CBE Y 1/1 INEDs who stepped down in 2024
Phil Rivett Y 8/8 Gay Huey Evans (29 Feb)
Carlson Tong (9 May)
David Tang Y 8/8 David Conner (30 December)
Shirish Apte Y 8/8
Robin Lawther, CBE Y 8/8
Jackie Hunt Y 8/8
Linda Yueh, CBE Y 8/8
Carlson Tong Y 3/3
INEDs who joined in 2024
Diane Jurgens Y 7/7
Diane Jurgens (1 March)
Lincoln Leong n/a 2/2 Lincoln Leong (2 November)
Our Board meetings Our stakeholders
The Board is committed to maintaining a comprehensive
Relationships with our key stakeholders were considered
schedule of meetings and a forward agenda to ensure its
extensively during Board and Committee meetings and
time is used most effectively and efficiently. The Group
in decision-making, and in the individual and collective
Chairman holds INED-only meetings ahead of each scheduled
engagements that took place throughout the year.
Board meeting, which provides the opportunity for discussion
on key agenda items and other matters without the executive See Stakeholder engagement on page 121 and
directors and management present. Section 172 statement on page 35.
Sir Iain Lobban, as independent adviser to the Board and its
Stakeholders
committees on cyber security and cyber threat management,
attended relevant items at Board and Committee meetings
to provide an independent and current view on the Group’s Clients Investors
progress in this area.
Employees Suppliers
Regulators and governments Society
114 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 115
Directors’
report
Board matters
Board discussion and activities in 2024
• Reviewed the Group’s strategy over two days • This included deep dives into the
at a Board and senior management offsite following areas:
meeting, discussing progress against the – Affluent and Private Banking
Strategy strategic priorities, the pivot to focus on – Innovation and SC Ventures
cross-border and Affluent banking, and
– Use of AI
execution challenges. The Board concluded
– Blue Sky session
that management is executing the strategy
– China, India and Africa and the Kenya business.
well and that it remains appropriate
• Received and discussed regular corporate
• Reviewed and approved the 2025–2029
development updates.
Corporate Plan as a basis for preparation of
• Reviewed and discussed the Group’s
the 2025 budget, receiving a report from the
sustainability strategy.
GCRO on the alignment of the plan to the
Group's Enterprise Risk Management • Reviewed and discussed the progress and
Framework (ERMF), and the Group Risk evolution of the Group’s Technology &
Appetite Statement Operations strategy.
• Reviewed and scrutinised the strategic and • Reviewed and discussed the Global Business
operational performance of the business Services strategy.
across client segments, product groups and • Approved exploring the potential sale of
regions, which included details of their a small number of businesses to boost
priorities, progress, opportunities and investment in the Group’s Affluent franchise
response to current events (Wealth & Retail Banking (WRB) businesses
in Botswana, Uganda and Zambia).
Spotlight: The Board approved a decision to explore options to divest three African WRB businesses in
Decision to explore Botswana, Uganda and Zambia, to refocus capital to the Group’s cross-border and Affluent
businesses in line with the Group’s strategic objectives. In taking this decision, the Board
exit of three WRB
considered the long-term advantages for the Group and the businesses themselves, but also
businesses in Africa
the shorter-term effects on the Group’s clients, employees and regulators before approving the
decision. Once firm proposals for the divestments are made, the Board will scrutinise the wider
Stakeholders: stakeholder impacts carefully.
Spotlight: The Board offered its support for the decision to accelerate our strategic focus on offering
Strategic focus cross-border corporate and investment banking capabilities and wealth management for
affluent clients. In Corporate & Institutional Banking (CIB), we will concentrate on serving the
complex needs of our largest global clients, leveraging our unique cross-border capabilities.
In WRB, we will double our investment plans in our fast-growing and high-returning wealth
management business for affluent clients. This incremental investment will be funded by
reshaping our Mass Retail business to focus on building a strong pipeline of future affluent and
Stakeholders: international banking clients. In taking this decision, the Board considered our investors’ interest
in high-quality growth and improvement in our return on tangible equity over the medium term,
as well as the interests of clients and employees in the relevant areas of the business.
• Received and discussed briefings from • Engaged with the Prudential Regulation
management on information and cyber- Authority (PRA) on the findings of its 2024
security (ICS) matters, and noted the Periodic Summary Meeting Letter.
Risk
successful delivery of the ICS strategic plan, • Assessed progress in continuing to strengthen
management transitioning ICS Risk to a steady state. the Group’s risk culture.
• Reviewed work on projects to replace and • Approved the Group's Risk Appetite for 2025
upgrade data centres in Asia. which included a consideration of principal
• Received and discussed China data risks.
sovereignty risks . • Approved the Group’s insurance coverage for
• Reviewed and discussed risk reports from 2024/2025
the GCRO. • Approved material changes to the ERMF.
• Reviewed the findings from the Bank of
England’s (BoE) second resolvability
assessment.
Directors’ report Corporate governance
Board discussion and activities in 2024 continued
• Monitored the Group’s financial performance. • Received half-yearly updates on, and
• Approved the 2023 full-year and 2024 discussed, the Group’s major investment
half-year results. programmes in 2024.
Financials and
• Monitored and assessed the strength of • Reviewed changes to the Group’s segment
performance the Group’s capital and liquidity positions. and country financial reporting.
• Provided oversight and monitored • Received half-yearly updates on, and
implementation of the Fit for Growth (FFG) discussed, investor relations matters.
programme. • Reviewed the 2024 Group and Management
• Considered the Group’s approach to capital Team Scorecard.
management and returns and approved
the 2023 final dividend, 2024 interim dividend,
and two share buyback programmes.
Spotlight: During 2024, the Board approved two dividend payments, and announced buybacks
Share buyback of ordinary shares totalling $2.5 billion. The Board noted the importance of approving
distributions and other capital management activities within an appropriately prudent
framework. Assurance was also sought from management regarding the protection of the
Group’s capital position and its ability to execute planned investment activities for future
growth. With the successful completion of our 2024 buybacks, in addition to total dividends
Stakeholders for 2024 of 37 cents per ordinary share and a new $1.5 billion buyback announced today, we
are well on our way to our $8 billion three-year cumulative shareholder distributions target.
• Approved the Group’s UK and Australia • Received updates on the progression and
Modern Slavery Statements. evolution of the Management Team’s and
• Discussed progress made against the Group’s senior management’s succession plans
People, culture people strategy. following a number of recent appointments.
and values • Considered the work completed to deliver on • Reviewed the Board Diversity Policy and
the Group’s culture aspiration and received concluded that no changes were required.
insights on the Group’s culture from the global • Reviewed an annual report update on the
employee engagement survey, My Voice. operation and effectiveness of the Group’s
Speaking Up programme for 2023-2024.
• Discussed the macroeconomic and geo- • Received internal and external briefings and
political headwinds and tailwinds in the input across a range of subjects, including:
global economy, including an assessment of – Global context and the role of the global bank
External the impact on the key drivers of the Group’s – The power and impact of technology
environment financial performance. in banking
– Global geopolitical outlook
– The Middle East and the impact of the
Israel-Gaza-Hezbollah conflict
– Regulatory developments and updates.
• Monitored developments and trends in • Discussed and reviewed the independence,
corporate governance and the impact of performance and annual re-election of the
changes to the UK and Hong Kong Listing non-executive directors.
Governance Rules in order to ensure the Company’s • Approved the re-appointment of the
governance structures remain compliant. independent adviser to the Board on cyber
• Received reports at each scheduled meeting security and cyber threats.
from the Board committee chairs on key areas • Authorised potential conflicts of interest
of focus for the committees and quarterly relating to directors’ external appointments.
updates from SCBHK and its Audit and Board • Discussed the observations and themes
Risk committees. arising from the 2024 internally facilitated
• Undertook training on directors’ duties and Board and committees’ effectiveness review
the governance landscape. ahead of approving the 2025 Action Plan.
• Approved the appointment of two new • Reviewed and, where appropriate, approved
independent non-executive directors, Diane updates to the Terms of Reference for each
Jurgens and Lincoln Leong, to the Board, as Board committee ensuring that they reflected
well as changes to the membership of the best practice and relevant rules.
Board’s committees. • Further developed meaningful linkages
between the Board and its subsidiaries
at chair, board and committee level
(see page 122).
116 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 117
Directors’
report
Board training and development
Director induction Lincoln Leong
Upon joining the Board, our directors undertake a Lincoln Leong was appointed as an INED in November 2024.
comprehensive tailored induction programme. Lincoln is undertaking an induction programme consisting
of a combination of meetings with existing Board members,
Diane Jurgens business and function heads and external counsel, receiving
Diane Jurgens was appointed as an INED and member of the tailored training sessions on our businesses and topics including
CSC on 1 March 2024. She undertook a formal induction plan Directors’ Duties, Governance Requirements, Strategy, Risk,
consisting of a combination of meetings with existing Board Finance and Cyber/artificial intelligence and a deep dive into
members, business and function heads and external counsel, topics relevant to his membership of the Audit Committee.
receiving tailored training sessions on our businesses and Lincoln received training on the obligations applicable to
topics including Directors’ Duties, Governance Requirements, directors of Hong Kong-listed companies on 2 October 2024
Strategy, Risk, Finance and Banking, and a deep dive into as required by Rule 3.09D of the Hong Kong Listing Rules,
topics relevant to her membership of the CSC. Diane received and has confirmed that he understands those obligations.
training on the obligations applicable to directors of Hong The Governance and Nomination Committee reviews the
Kong-listed companies on 14 February 2024 as required by induction programme of all new INEDs. The Committee is
Rule 3.09D of the Hong Kong Listing Rules, and has confirmed satisfied that all new INEDs have made excellent progress
that she understands those obligations. Diane joined the with their induction programmes.
Board Risk Committee later in the year and is undertaking an
induction programme for that. She also visited some key Ongoing training
markets on the overseas Board trips to Shanghai and Beijing
Ongoing development plans ensure that directors lead with
in April, to Mumbai in June and to Nairobi in November, as
confidence and integrity and promote the Group’s culture,
well as undertaking a trip to Silicon Valley with the Group’s
purpose and values. Mandatory learning and training are
Management Team and a visit to Singapore where she met
also important elements of directors’ fitness and propriety
with senior management. Diane also attended a financial
assessments as required under the UK Senior Managers and
services conference in New York, where she met members
Certification Regime. During the year, all directors received a
of our US senior management team.
combination of mandatory learning, briefings, presentations
from guest speakers and papers on a wide range of topics to
ensure that they are well informed and that the Board remains
highly effective. The table below gives further examples of
directors’ training in 2024.
2024 director training overview
Geopolitical
Outlook: 2024
elections and Audit and Recovery and
their likely Corporate Resolvability Directors’
Sustainability impact on the Governance Board duties and
Position Artificial evolving (ACG) simulation Blue Sky Model Risk regulatory
Statements Intelligence global order Socialisation exercise Session Management updates
José Viñals
Bill Winters
Diego De Giorgi1
Shirish Apte
David Conner²
Jackie Hunt
Diane Jurgens3 n/a
Robin Lawther
Maria Ramos
Phil Rivett
Carlson Tong4 n/a n/a n/a n/a
David Tang
Linda Yueh
Lincoln Leong5 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
1 Diego de Giorgi joined the Board on 3 January 2024 Director attended the session
2 David Conner stepped down from the Board on 30 December 2024
D irector was unable to attend the session but received any accompanying
3 Diane Jurgens joined the Board on 1 March 2024 material and had opportunities to raise questions and observations with the
4 Carlson Tong stepped down from the Board on 9 May 2024 Group Chairman and Group Company Secretary
5 Lincoln Leong joined the Board on 2 November 2024
Directors’ report Corporate governance
In 2024, Board members received briefings from and Group Chairman’s performance
engaged with, diplomats, political advisers and politicians, Maria Ramos, as Senior Independent Director, reviewed José
eminent economists, central bankers and former leaders of Viñals’ performance as Group Chairman, meeting with each
international organisations on topics including the evolving director separately to take their feedback. Consolidated
geopolitical outlook, the impact of the conflicts in the Middle feedback was shared with him.
East, the potential impact of the incoming administration in
the United States , the role of the global bank, the power and
Time commitment
impact of technology in banking, regulatory developments
Our INEDs commit sufficient time in discharging their
and the global macroeconomic environment.
responsibilities as directors of Standard Chartered. In general,
we estimate that each INED spent well in excess of their
Committee training
expected time commitments on Board-related duties.
Members of the Board committees also received training
relevant to their respective committees. In 2024, the Board Risk
Access to independent advice
Committee received training on topics including the Internal
All of the directors have access to the advice of the Group
Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) and the
Company Secretary, who provides support to the Board and
Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process (ILAAP), and
is responsible for advising the Board on governance matters.
Traded Risk. The Audit Committee received training on the
Directors also have access to independent professional
proposed approach to material controls under the UK Code
advice at the Group’s expense where they judge it necessary
and a deep dive into sanctions. The CSC received training on
to discharge their responsibilities as directors.
nature and biodiversity.
Individual performance
The Group Chairman led the performance review of
individual director performance for 2024. These one-to-one
sessions considered:
• their performance against core competencies, including
their challenge and conduct in meetings and the Board’s
expectation of directors
• their time commitment to the Group, including (where
relevant) the potential impact of any outside interests
• their ongoing development and training needs
• the Board’s composition and refreshment
• their level of engagement across the Group.
These performance reviews are used as the basis for
recommending the re-election of directors by shareholders
at the AGM and to assist the Group Chairman with his own
assessment of the Board’s effectiveness. In addition, the
Group Chairman has responsibility for assessing annually the
fitness and propriety of the Company’s INEDs and the Group
Chief Executive Officer under the UK Senior Managers and
Certification Regime. These assessments were carried out in
respect of each INED and the Group Chief Executive and no
issues in relation to fitness and propriety were identified. The
Group Chief Executive carried out a similar assessment for the
Group Chief Financial Officer, also with no issues identified.
118 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 121
Directors’
report
Board engagement with our stakeholders
Consideration of our stakeholders’ views is important not
only to Board decision-making, but also to the Board’s
consideration of our purpose, values and strategy. During
the year, directors engaged collectively and individually
with stakeholders. Informal and formal meetings with
stakeholders across our markets help to provide INEDs
with a comprehensive understanding of their views and
the impact of the Group’s activities.
Clients and suppliers Employees continued
Maintaining productive and sustainable relationships with Ahead of these, directors were briefed on the individual
our clients is a key priority. Throughout 2024, directors travelled market, including local trends provided by the annual
within our footprint for meetings with clients in order to employee engagement survey (My Voice) and other relevant
understand their developing needs. This year the Board visited data points offered by local and regional management teams.
e-commerce, technology and AI clients in Beijing and fintech Feedback from these sessions was subsequently shared
clients and suppliers in Shanghai, and held events for clients in with the CSC and other stakeholders, where appropriate.
Mumbai, Shanghai and Nairobi. Through these sessions directors were able to appreciate the
challenges, successes, concerns and opportunities shared by
colleagues in each of the markets.
Employees
In addition to this enhanced model, the Group has a
The Board places great importance on workforce engagement comprehensive employee listening programme, through which
at all levels as a way of ensuring that the voice of colleagues the Board has an opportunity to understand diverse employee
is heard and reflected in decision-making. It maintains a perspectives. These tools include the annual employee
two-way dialogue through market-led engagements that engagement survey, a continuous listening programme,
enable the Board to listen to and better understand the lived lifecycle surveys and diagnostic research on specific areas of
experience of our colleagues across a range of markets, which focus, such as flexible working and performance management.
is important to the Board in overseeing, supporting and, where
Details on all of our employee engagement can be found on page 188.
necessary, challenging management in implementing its
people strategy.
The Board is also informed about the operation and themes of
The Board continues to adopt an alternative workforce issues raised under the Group’s Whistleblowing programme.
engagement method as set out in the UK Code. Our enhanced
For more details on Speaking Up, please refer to page 95.
model, which saw its first full year of operation in 2024, is
designed to improve how Board members gather and share
feedback obtained from colleagues who come from a cross
Regulators and governments
section of the business, and use that to provide additional
assurance for information received from employee surveys
The Board, either collectively or individually, engaged with
and other employee feedback tools. In 2024, the Board
relevant policy-makers and regulators in several jurisdictions
formally met colleagues in various markets, including Shanghai,
across our global footprint, including for example: the UK, EU,
Mumbai and Nairobi, in specially arranged sessions.
China, Singapore and India. Topics of discussion included
changes in the regulatory landscape for financial services,
developments in new regulation in such areas as digital assets
and sustainable finance, and the issue of fragmenting rule sets
across the global context.
Investors
During the year, we maintained a comprehensive programme
of engagement, including with investor advisory bodies and
credit rating agencies, and provided updates on progress
made to transform our business to deliver improved returns.
The Group Chairman and other Board directors had direct
contact with investors and advisory voting bodies during the
year, and received regular updates from the Investor Relations
and Group Secretariat teams, including reports on market
developments. The Group Chairman, leads engagement
with shareholders and hosted the 2024 AGM alongside fellow
Board members, in addition to a large number of bilateral
meetings with investors.
Directors’ report Corporate governance
Investors continued Our subsidiaries
In November 2024 the Group Chairman hosted a Stewardship In 2024, the Group Chairman and INEDs engaged with the
Event alongside the chairs of all the Board committees. The Group’s subsidiaries through a number of forums.
Group Chairman provided an update regarding the Group’s
The Group Chairman attended a meeting of the Hong Kong
strategy, including with respect to sustainability, and the
board. He also attended the annual Audit, Board Risk and
Board committee chairs provided updates on the work of
Remuneration Committee chairs’ calls with subsidiaries,
their committees during the year. This was followed by a
and engaged actively with subsidiary chairs and INEDs on
presentation on Cybersecurity at Standard Chartered and
market visits.
a Q&A session.
On an annual basis, the Chairs of the SCBHK and Standard
Bill Winters and Diego De Giorgi were the primary spokespeople
Chartered Bank (Singapore) Limited (SCBSL) Audit Committees
for the Group in 2024 and engaged extensively with existing
observe SC PLC/SC Bank Audit Committee meetings, and the
and potential investors during individual or group meetings
Chair of the Audit Committee attends SCBHK and SCBSL Audit
and conferences. Judy Hsu, CEO, WRB, Standard Chartered
Committee meetings and provides an overview of SC PLC/
PLC, hosted a virtual Affluent investor seminar, providing an
SC Bank Audit Committee key areas of focus. In March (after
overview of the Affluent business as well as insights on the
the announcement of full-year results), the Audit Committee
strategy and propositions to grow the business further.
Chair hosts an annual global call with subsidiary Audit
The Chair of the Remuneration Committee led an investor Committee members, where attendees listen to the priorities
consultation on proposals for the new Remuneration Policy of the SC PLC/SC Bank Audit Committees and are encouraged
being put to shareholders at the coming AGM. More details to ask questions. As part of the annual performance and
on this are included within the Remuneration Report. effectiveness review of EY, subsidiary Audit Committee Chairs
are invited to comment on the effectiveness of our Statutory
The AGM, held this year on 10 May 2024, is the Board’s key
Auditor via a structured questionnaire. During overseas
opportunity for engagement with retail shareholders, enabling
Board visits, the Audit Committee Chair and other members
discussion of the Group’s recent performance and strategic
meet with local Audit Committee Chairs, Heads of GIA and
priorities. Questions received from shareholders covered a
EY Partners.
diverse range of topics, including the Group’s strategy, client
transition plans, biodiversity, the China market and sustainable The Board Risk Committee Chair hosts an annual
finance. All Board-proposed resolutions were passed. We videoconference with chairs of the subsidiary board risk
remain very grateful for the support of our shareholders. committees. This year, items discussed during the call included:
priorities and focus for the Board Risk Committee during 2024,
the external environment and the GRCO’s priorities. The risk
Society
committee chairs of SCBHK and SCBSL joined one Group Board
Risk Committee meeting and the Board Risk Committee Chair
The Board places great importance in understanding, and
attended one SCBHK Risk Committee meeting.
considering the needs of, the communities and environment
in which we do business. Directors took the opportunity The Remuneration Committee Chair held a videoconference
during a Board trip to Beijing to participate in a youth career attended by the subsidiary remuneration committee chairs
mentoring workshop with university students. In Shanghai, and the chairs of subsidiary boards that have remuneration
Board members met entrepreneurs who were beneficiaries responsibilities. The call was also attended by the Group
of our community projects: Social Enterprise Support Project Chairman, other members of the Group Remuneration
and Women in Entrepreneurship, the Bank’s signature Committee and executives from Human Resources, and
Futuremakers programmes in China. In Mumbai, directors Reward and the Corporate Secretariat. The call fostered
visited a Standard Chartered Futuremakers-supported training knowledge sharing and best practice between the Group
facility for persons with disabilities, which provides training in Remuneration Committee and the subsidiary remuneration
core employability skills such as digital literacy, digital problem committees and raised awareness of the priorities felt by the
solving, soft skills and career readiness, and engaged with the wider workforce in our markets. Topics that were discussed
students of the programmes. In Nairobi we held a 'mentor’s included: changes to the discretionary incentive approach
den' for Futuremakers participants and their alumni with for 2024; key messages; salary considerations; the removal of
members of the Board and the Group Management Team. the 2:1 bonus cap; the 2025 Directors’ Remuneration Policy;
and the Bank’s employee recognition platform, Appreciate.
Further detail on how the Group engaged with stakeholders more
generally can be found on page 35 to 41.
122 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Directors’ report Corporate governance
Other areas of focus
Remuneration as a risk • Considered advice provided by the GCRO to the Remuneration Committee concerning the risk
management tool factors to be taken into account by the Remuneration Committee in determining the outturns
for incentives for the Group Chief Executive and other colleagues. Such advice assists the
Remuneration Committee in its assessment as to whether the Group’s remuneration policy,
practices and procedures are consistent with and promote sound and effective risk management,
and do not encourage risk-taking that exceeds the level of tolerated risk of the Group.
Further details concerning the Group’s approach to using remuneration as a risk management tool is set out in
the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 143 to 174
Examples of deeper • CIB and WRB Risk reviews: Received and discussed papers covering the WRB and CIB
discussions into portfolios and, in particular, areas of focus such as change management, unsecured digital
specific topics lending partnerships and Private Equity financing activities. Financial Crime and ICS risks in the
context of these businesses and markets were focused on to fully understand how these risks,
which are becoming more prevalent and sophisticated, are being managed and mitigated.
• Credit and Portfolio Management (CPM): Considered the review of the CPM mandate,
assets and liabilities optimisation.
• Embedding Change Management Lessons Learned across the CIB Change Portfolio:
Discussed the programme of continuous improvement being undertaken and leveraging
lessons learned from change initiatives.
• Third Party Risk: Reviewed deeper analysis on third party arrangements, key milestones and
overall risk assessment.
• Environment, Social, Governance and Reputational (ESGR) Risk: Discussed a paper setting
out the Group’s approach to managing ESGR Risk, including key areas of focus.
• Safety and Security Risk: Received and discussed an update on safety and security issues
over the past 12 months.
• Credit Risk review: Discussed reports including progress made and key themes and insights
from the 2024 reviews, and the review plan for 2025.
• SC Ventures Risk and Governance: Received an update on the risk posture, governance
structures and control environment of the SC Ventures business unit.
• Digital Assets Risk: Received an update on the key risks associated with the Group’s current
and planned digital assets activities.
Interaction with • Maria Ramos attended meetings with the PRA in 2024.
regulators
Linkages with subsidiary • In 2024, Maria Ramos attended a risk committee meeting of SCBHK. The risk committee chairs
risk committees of SCBHK and SCBSL attended one Board Risk Committee meeting. This practice will continue
in 2025 to reinforce these important linkages.
• Maria Ramos hosted an annual videoconference with the chairs of subsidiary board risk
committees and INEDs in July 2024.
Please refer to page 122 on linkages between the Committee and chairs of subsidiary board risk committees
132 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 133
Directors’
report
Committee effectiveness in 2024 Progress against last year's Action Plan
The 2024 Board and Committees’ effectiveness review was The Action Plan set out a number of actions arising from the
conducted internally, facilitated by the Group Company internally facilitated effectiveness review conducted in 2023.
Secretary, and in accordance with the UK Code. The 2024 Action Plan was regularly reviewed during the year
and good progress has been made against the actions.
Key observations from the 2024 internal effectiveness review
This year’s review came in an exceptionally • The GCRO and the Risk Function were highly
busy year for the Committee, which considered rated, with good engagement and an
a number of wide-ranging risks. The Chair open relationship with the Chair and other
was commended for her stewardship of the Committee members.
Committee, working closely with management • The Committee’s oversight of the risks facing
to select appropriate topics for discussion. the business was highly rated and both
The feedback on the Committee’s functioning the Committee and management were
highlighted the following: viewed to be good at horizon scanning for
• There has been a significant improvement in emerging risks.
the quality of papers, which has facilitated
much better discussions in meetings. The
length and timely circulation of papers will
remain a focus.
2025 Action Plan
The 2025 Action Plan for the Committee reflects • Continue to review and minimise the
suggestions from the review and continues to duplication of topics being reviewed from
build on the platform from last year: multiple perspectives by Board Committees
and the Board.
• Consider increasing the meeting time for
the Committee, and refocus agendas away • Schedule training on ICS, FCR, MRM, the
from risks which are now in appetite to Board Risk Appetite on Data Risk, Climate
emerging ones. and Treasury matters.
• Continue to monitor the length, focus and
timeliness of papers, particularly focusing
on executive summaries and consistently
setting out the interconnectivity of risks,
where relevant.
Risk information provided to the Committee Committee links with other Board committees
The Committee is authorised to seek any information that The Committee interacts closely with other Board Committees
will allow the Committee to fulfil its governance mandate where the remit of these other Committees clearly covers
relating to risks to which the Group is exposed, and alert senior risk-related matters. For example, the Audit Committee reviews
management when risk reports do not meet its requirements. the Group’s internal financial controls and has oversight of
The Committee receives regular reports on risk management regulatory compliance and Data Risk. The Remuneration
and tracks a wide range of risk metrics through a Board Risk Committee receives advice from the Committee regarding risk
Information report. This report provides an overview of the and control matters to be taken into account for remuneration
Group’s risk profile against the Group’s Risk Appetite Statement. decisions. The CSC has oversight of culture and sustainability-
The GCRO’s report covers the macroeconomic environment, related matters. The interaction assists the Committee in
geopolitical outlook, material events and disclosures, and ensuring that it is well informed on discussions held, and the
ongoing risks. Coverage of PRTs and regulatory matters are close collaboration of the Committee Chairs helps to ensure
also included in this report. that there are no gaps and any potential for unnecessary
duplication is avoided.
Interaction with management
Senior management has attended Committee meetings for Resources
deeper discussion of agenda items. The Committee Chair also The Committee has sought and received assurance that
meets individually with senior leaders of the Risk function. the Risk function is adequately resourced to perform its
remit effectively.
Interaction with the Group Chief Risk Officer
The Committee Chair meets regularly with the GCRO and Disclosures
senior leaders in the Risk function. Senior managers are held The Committee has reviewed the risk disclosures in the Annual
accountable for risk issues and report to the Committee, where Report and the Half-Year Report and has also reviewed the
matters are reported by the GCRO. disclosures regarding the work of the Committee.
Directors’ report Corporate governance
Culture and Sustainability Committee
“ The Committee has been busy overseeing the Group’s
net zero journey against an ever-changing external
environment, reviewing progress against the Group’s
Stands and monitoring the Group’s culture aspiration.”
Committee composition and attendance Additional attendees
The Group Chairman; Group Chief Executive; Chief Strategy and
Dr Linda Yueh CBE 4/4
Talent Officer; Chief Sustainability Officer and Group Company
Secretary also attended Committee meetings in 2024.
Jackie Hunt1 3/3
Diane Jurgens2 3/3 Purpose and responsibilities
The Committee is responsible for overseeing the Group’s culture
Robin Lawther CBE 4/4 and sustainability priorities. The Committee Chair reports to the
Board on the Committee’s key areas of focus following each
David Tang 4/4 meeting.
1 Jackie Hunt stepped down from the Committee on 8 December 2024 The Committee has written Terms of Reference that
can be viewed at sc.com/termsofreference
2 Diane Jurgens joined the Committee on 1 March 2024
I am pleased to present the report of the Culture and • Received a training session on Nature, an important area of
Sustainability Committee for 2024 and share with you the focus for the Committee. I’m delighted to see the progress
highlights of our work: we are making in this area, particularly through our early
adoption of the Taskforce on Nature-related Financial
• Oversaw good progress against the Group’s net zero
Disclosures, which reflects our commitment to advancing
roadmap. The Committee endorsed the baseline and target
our work with Nature.
for the agriculture sector which has been published in the
Sustainability Review on page 82. This completes the Group’s I am extremely proud of the awards that the CSO Organisation
target setting of the 12 highest carbon-emitting sectors. have been awarded this year, including Sustainability Team
Agriculture is a notoriously difficult sector in which to set a of the Year from the Airlines Economics Sustainability Awards
target and we are conscious of the dichotomy between for our contribution to the Pegasus Principles for the Aviation
driving goals towards net zero while also ensuring our sector and a series of 30+ awards from The Asset Triple A
communities benefit from a just transition. In the context of Sustainable Finance Awards.
agriculture, we aim to strike a balance between reducing
carbon emissions while also protecting food security and
the living standards of farmers.
• Reviewed the proposal for a refreshed Culture Dashboard
Dr Linda Yueh
which will be operationalised in 2025, taking into account
the Committee’s feedback. The purpose of the dashboard is Chair
to provide a comprehensive overview of cultural change by Culture and Sustainability Committee
reporting on several key metrics that allow us to monitor the
progress of our culture journey and aid local decision-making
to drive further progress.
134 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 135
Directors’
report
Activities during the year
Key matters
Sustainability and ESG • Oversaw progress on the Group’s net zero roadmap, including the commitment for our Scope 1 and
2 emissions to be net zero by 2025, and progress towards meeting the Group’s financed emissions
interim targets for high-emitting sectors by 2030.
• Reviewed and discussed the Group’s Sustainability Strategy and recommended the 2025
sustainability strategic priorities to the Board.
• Reviewed and endorsed the Group’s Transition Plan, challenging the CSO Organisation to detail
how they have translated our net zero commitments into an actionable plan and satisfied itself
that there is sufficient resource across the Group to implement the commitments being made.
• Discussed and endorsed the approach to baseline and target the agriculture sector on Implied
Temperature Rating, which had been chosen as it considered the social element of ESG by avoiding
carbon targets on specific crops and smaller farms, which could endanger food security.
• Discussed and endorsed the oil and gas facilitated emissions target.
• Considered a progress update on the Group’s Sustainability Aspirations and endorsed four new key
performance indicators (KPIs) following the achievement of six KPIs in 2024.
• Reviewed, challenged and endorsed the proposed changes to the Human Rights Position
Statement, expressing concern for the increasing issues faced globally in tackling infringements
of human rights.
• Monitored the Group’s performance against assessments produced by our prioritised external
ratings agencies.
• Received training on Nature, which was opened up to all Board members.
Our Stands (Accelerating • Reviewed and discussed the year-end assessment on the achievement of the Stands, and endorsed
Zero, Lifting Participation the proposed sustainability and Stands measures for inclusion in the Group’s remuneration, ahead
and Resetting of approval by the Remuneration Committee.
Globalisation) • Discussed the Lifting Participation Stand, which had been refocused to reflect the reviews of
operations in markets within the WRB business. On the community impact component of this
Stand, the Committee discussed Futuremakers and how to maximise the impact of the programme.
• Discussed the complexities of setting metrics for the Resetting Globalisation Stand and offered
suggestions which were considered by management. The updates were subsequently endorsed by
the Committee.
• Continued to monitor the Accelerating Zero Stand through the work outlined in the Sustainability
section above.
Culture, Diversity and • Received an update on the ongoing work to deliver on the Group’s culture aspiration of a ‘One
Inclusion (D&I) and Board Bank culture of ambition, action and accountability that puts our clients at the heart of all we do’.
workforce engagement Our valued behaviours continue to be the practical way we will manifest our aspirational culture.
The Committee commended the work ongoing to strive for further building leadership capability
and encouraged the team to accelerate the leadership training programme.
• Discussed and gave guidance on the Culture Dashboard, which had been reviewed to ensure that
it met the needs of the Group’s culture agenda and will be relaunched in 2025.
• Monitored progress against the diversity and inclusion strategy during a period of organisational
change and discussed the high-impact actions to achieve targeted outcomes. These include:
developing a diverse talent pipeline to improve leadership representation, sponsorship skills
building for our leaders to foster positive career progression and refreshing the Employee Resource
Group approach to enhance colleague experience.
• Received a report from GIA on its activities and opinions with respect to culture and sustainability,
and commended GIA for introducing cultural trends into audits as it represents an innovative
method of assessing the Group’s culture.
• Received the annual employee engagement survey (My Voice) and probed the results to
understand what was driving the scores and challenged the team on areas for improvement.
• Received an update on the Board Workforce Engagement programme, which included the key
themes from the three formal events which took place in China, India and Kenya as part of the
market visits, and a summary of reflections from directors and the colleagues who participated.
Directors’ report Corporate governance
Committee effectiveness in 2024
The 2024 Board and Committees’ effectiveness review was conducted internally, facilitated by the Group Company Secretary,
and in accordance with the UK Code.
Progress against last year's Action Plan
The Action Plan set out a number of actions arising from the internally facilitated effectiveness review conducted in 2023.
The 2024 Action Plan was regularly reviewed during the year and good progress has been made against the actions.
Key observations from the 2024 internal effectiveness review
This was a year of change for the Committee, • Contributions from the Sustainability team
as it transitioned its focus towards driving were rated highly, with good progress made
the Group’s sustainability ambitions. across the Group’s net zero ambitions.
The feedback on the Committee’s functioning • The quality of papers had improved during
and effectiveness highlighted the following: the course of the year and were now rated
• Good progress was being made on the to be of a good standard, but would benefit
repositioning of the Committee and from being more concise.
improvements had been made in the
fluency of meetings.
2025 Action Plan
The 2025 Action Plan for the Committee reflects • Continue to focus on ensuring papers are
suggestions from the review and continues to concise, focus on key points and that the
build on the solid progress made last year: level of detail in presentations is calibrated.
• The Committee will continue to refine
its objectives in order to complete its
repositioning during 2025.
136 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 137
Directors’
report
Governance and Nomination Committee
“ In another busy year for the Committee, we have
scoured the market to secure the best non-executive
talent to help your Board meet the business and
governance challenges the Group will face in a
constantly changing world.”
Committee composition and attendance Purpose and responsibilities
The Committee has responsibility for advising the Board and
José Viñals 4/4
committees on their composition, appointments and succession.
The Committee also monitors and advises on the impact of
Shirish Apte 4/4
changes to corporate governance affecting the whole Group.
The Committee Chair reports to the Board on the Committee’s
Linda Yueh 4/4
key areas of focus following each meeting.
Maria Ramos 4/4 The Committee has written Terms of Reference that
can be viewed at sc.com/termsofreference
Phil Rivett 4/4
The Group Chief Executive, Chief Strategy and Talent Officer and
Group Company Secretary also attended Committee meetings
in 2024.
I am pleased to present the report of the Governance and
Nomination Committee for 2024 and share with you the
highlights of our work:
• Overseeing comprehensive search processes that led to
the appointments of Diane Jurgens and Lincoln Leong to
our Board.
• Meeting our Board gender and ethnicity diversity targets.
• Continuing to focus on our skills matrix in our succession
planning, ensuring our Board and Management Team
maintains its rich diversity of skills, experience and
backgrounds.
• Undertaking a detailed review of governance across our
subsidiaries, following structural changes in the Group
aimed at moving the focus of management towards
business sectors and away from the regional clusters.
Dr José Viñals
Chair
Governance and Nomination Committee
Directors’ report Corporate governance
Board composition as at 31 December 2024
We are pleased to report that as at 31 December 2024 our Board met the diversity targets set out in UK Listing Rules. Board
diversity data is collected by way of self-identification. Directors and members of the Management Team were presented
with the prescribed disclosure categories and asked to respond based on their self-identification.
Gender and ethnic diversity
Number of senior of positions
Board gender diversity (CEO, CFO, SID and Chair) Board ethnic diversity
Women Women White
5 1 8
42 25 33
% % Ethnic minority %
Men Men background
(2023:38%) (2023: 25%) (2023: 31%)
7 3 4
Number of
senior positions Percentage
Percentage of on the Board Number in of executive
Number of the Board (CEO, CFO, SID executive management*
Board members (%) and Chair) management* (%)
Men 7 58 3 7 54
Women 5 42 1 6 46
Number of
senior positions Percentage of
Percentage of on the Board Number in executive
Number of the Board (CEO, CFO, SID executive management*
Board members (%) and Chair) management* (%)
White British or other White
(including minority-White groups) 8 67 4 5 38
Mixed/multiple ethnic groups 0 0 0 0 0
Asian/ Asian British 4 33 0 6 46
Black/African/Caribbean/Black British 0 0 0 1 8
Other ethnic group 0 0 0 0 0
Not specified/prefer not to say 0 0 0 1 8
* Includes our Management Team as at 31 December 2024, plus the Group Company Secretary, but excludes interim members.
Information is as at 31 December 2024.
Experience
Experience
International Representation INED tenure
experience from our markets (including Chair)
0-1 year 20%
1-3 years 40%
100 83
% %
3-6 years 30%
6-9 years 10%
138 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 139
Directors’
report
Activities during the year
Key matters
Board and senior talent • Considered a range of potential future INED candidates, in order to maintain the necessary range
succession planning of skills, experience, knowledge and perspectives on the Board, taking into account the length of
tenure of the INEDs, and the importance of regularly refreshing the Board membership. Russell
Reynolds¹ were engaged throughout the year to assist with the search.
• In view of the departure of Carlson Tong, engaged Russell Reynolds to perform a search of
candidates with experience and connections in the Hong Kong market culminating in the
appointment of Lincoln Leong as an INED.
• Discussed management’s executive talent approach and approved the Group Management Team
and Group Chief Executive Officer succession plans for the Group.
1 Russell Reynolds also provides senior resourcing to the Group. The Company is not aware of any ongoing business relationship between Russell Reynolds and the
Company’s directors
Other areas of focus
Succession planning • Reviewed succession plans for the committee chair roles and identified appropriate individuals with
the necessary skills and attributes to provide emergency cover as required.
Board and Committees • Oversaw the Board and committees’ effectiveness review (see page 119), and monitored
effectiveness review progress against the 2024 Action Plan, which addressed the key observations from the 2023
effectiveness review.
• Discussed observations and recommendations arising from this review and recommended to the
Board the 2025 Action Plan.
Independent cyber • Recommended the extension of Sir Iain Lobban’s appointment as the independent cyber security
security adviser adviser to the Board and concluded that his advice remained invaluable, with his role expanding to
encompass advice on our exploitation of data from 2025.
External interests and • Conducted a review of the directors’ existing and previously authorised potential and actual
directors’ independence situational conflicts of interest and concluded that there were no circumstances which would
necessitate any of these authorisations being revoked or amended.
• Noted directors’ other directorships and business interests taken on during the year in the context of
time commitment, over-boarding and the regulatory and shareholder limits on directorships as well
as other regulatory requirements in this area.
• Reviewed the independence of each of the non-executive directors, taking into account any
circumstances with a reasonable prospect of impairing their independence, and found that each
of the INEDs continued to be independent.
Subsidiary governance • Received updates from the Group Heads of CIB and WRB, and from the Group’s International
President, who have management responsibility for the Group’s subsidiaries, on the Group’s
approach to subsidiary governance. This included a look at our compliance with existing corporate
governance rules across the Group and horizon scanning for changes across our markets.
Terms of Reference • Conducted a review of the Committee's Terms of Reference, taking into account applicable rules
and best practice in the UK and Hong Kong. Minor amendments were made, principally to align
with the 2024 UK Corporate Governance Code.
Committee composition • Reviewed our skills matrix and made changes to committee composition.
Succession planning and Board appointments
The Committee considers the likely technical skills required for the Board in the context of the development and execution of
the Group’s strategy. This drives the Committee’s succession planning approach. The Committee also keeps under review the
Group’s succession plans in relation to executive directors and senior management, whereby internal successors are assessed
and developed alongside identifying external candidates where required. The directors have power under the Company’s
articles of association to appoint new directors. Newly appointed directors retire at the AGM following appointment and
are eligible for election. As required by the UK Code, all directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders subject to
continued satisfactory performance based upon their annual assessment. Non-executive directors are appointed for an initial
period of one year and subject to (re)election by shareholders at AGMs, in line with the UK Code.
Directors’ report Corporate governance
Implementation of our Board Diversity Policy
The Committee conducted its annual review of our Board Diversity Policy (the Policy) in 2024. No changes were made to the
Policy. Although the Policy does not contain specifications or targets for committee membership, the Policy provides for a
diverse Board with a wide range of skills and perspectives which its members bring to our Board committees.
Progress against Board Diversity Policy objectives
We set out below our progress against our Board Diversity Policy as at 31 December 2024. Information on the Group’s wider
diversity and inclusion strategy, including gender balance across the Group and targets for ethnic representation, can be found
on pages 40 to 41. A copy of the full Board Diversity Policy can be viewed at sc.com/boarddiversitypolicy and further details on
the Group’s approach to diversity and inclusion can be viewed at sc.com/diversity-and-inclusion.
Increasing the representation of women on the Board with an Following changes during the year, female representation
aim to have a minimum of 40 per cent female representation on the board increased to 42 per cent at year end.
Adopting an ethnicity aspiration of a minimum of 30 per cent Representation from ethnic minority backgrounds has
from an ethnic minority background increased to 33 per cent at the end of 2024.
Ensuring that our Board reflects the diverse markets in which The Board has members either based in or who are
we operate nationals of many of the regions in which we operate,
including the UK, EU, North America, Asia and Africa.
Many of the INEDs have additional experience of having
worked and lived in many of the Group’s other markets.
We continue to prioritise board representation from our
key markets.
Ensuring that the Board is comprised of a good balance The Committee has continued to focus on ensuring that
of skills, experience, knowledge, perspective and the Board has the right combination of experience, skills
varied backgrounds and attributes required both immediately and in the
medium to longer term. The appointment of Diane Jurgens
brings experience in using technology to transform
business in some of our key markets, and Lincoln Leong
brings deep experience of the Hong Kong market.
Ensuring that we consider the Group’s aspirations in We remain committed to all aspects of diversity in our
relation to disability, sexual orientation, gender identity succession process.
and gender expression
Only engaging search firms who are signed up to the In 2024 we worked with Russell Reynolds, who has signed
Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms up to the Voluntary Code and is committed to supporting
our ambitions to ensure diversity on our Board.
Reporting annually on the diversity of the executive We continue to improve our reporting of Board and senior
pipeline as well as the diversity of the Board, including talent succession planning as well as reporting on the
progress being made on reaching the Board’s gender importance of a diverse Board.
and ethnicity aspirations
140 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Directors’ report Corporate governance
Appointing a new Group Chair of Standard Chartered PLC
With José Viñals’ nine-year term as Group Chairman due to expire in October 2025, the Board
commenced a global search for his successor in late 2023, which led to the appointment of
Maria Ramos as Group Chair Designate to succeed José.
Early stages of the process
• Members of the Board were invited to express an interest in putting themselves forward for the role, with Maria
accepting that invitation
• Maria would typically have led the search in her capacity as the Company’s Senior Independent Director, however,
given her interest in the role a Selection Panel was constituted to lead the process instead. The Selection Panel
was comprised of non-executive directors and was chaired by Phil Rivett, a member of the Governance and
Nomination Committee
• A draft role specification was agreed by the Selection Panel
• Several leading international search firms were invited to pitch for the mandate, following which Spencer Stuart*
was appointed to support the process
• The Selection Panel, with input from the Executive Directors, agreed the final role specification. They were careful
to ensure this supported the Group’s strategic priorities and included the skills, experience and knowledge as well
as the personal attributes required for the role.
Long-list
• A diverse global list of candidates was presented by Spencer Stuart and was discussed extensively. Spencer Stuart
was then asked to gather additional information on some of the candidates to ensure suitability
• A refined shortlist of potential external candidates was then agreed by the Selection Panel, and they were
approached by Spencer Stuart.
Short-list
• The shortlisted candidates met with Spencer Stuart and Phil Rivett initially, to explain to them more about the
role, our expectations and to gauge their appetite and suitability
• Members of the Selection Panel, together with the Executive Directors then interviewed the remaining candidates
and measured them against the agreed role specification
• Spencer Stuart produced reports on each of the final candidates, containing detailed assessments and
referencing.
Final Stages
• The feedback was then documented and discussed at a meeting of the Selection Panel and Executive Directors.
A recommendation was then made to the Board
• The Board, excluding Maria, then met and discussed Maria’s candidacy which was unanimously endorsed, subject
to a number of regulatory and other external approvals. Their decision was based on their experience of working
with her, Spencer Stuart’s report and the interviews with her which demonstrated:
– a deep knowledge and understanding of the Group and the banking industry, as a former bank chief executive
– considerable international non-executive and Chair experience as well as a firm understanding of the key
governance issues
– integrity, professional reputation, competency, breadth of knowledge and qualification to take on the role
– strong commercial, governmental, financial and policy experience
– broad international experience, strong international network and experience of operating across
emerging markets.
Announcement
Progress against the outstanding approvals were sufficiently advanced for the Board to be sufficiently confident
to announce her conditional appointment on 4 February 2025.
* Spencer Stuart is a signatory of the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms. They also provide leadership advisory
and senior executive search and assessment services to the HR function within the Standard Chartered Group.
Maria Throughout the selection process, as highlighted above, years from 2009-2019, where she navigated the global
Ramos Maria demonstrated her extensive experience as a financial crisis, expanded Absa into a pan-African
leader in both the public and private sector and as a financial services provider with a footprint across
banker. She has strong international exposure, and 12 African markets and managed its transition following
a particularly good understanding of emerging and Barclays’ divestment of its controlling stake. Maria
developing markets. An economist by training, Maria retired from her executive career in 2019 and has gone
played a pivotal role in South Africa’s post-apartheid on to serve as an independent non-executive director
economic and public finance reform as Director-General of several boards, including internationally listed
of the National Treasury from 1995-2003. She was companies, and advisory groups (more details on those
appointed Chief Executive of Transnet Ltd, the state- roles can be found on page 106). Most recently, Maria
owned freight transport and logistics service provider served as Chair of AngloGold Ashanti Limited (2020-
in 2004-2009 during which time Transnet underwent a 2024), a leading global mining company, where she
significant financial, cultural and operational turnaround. provided strategic leadership and oversight of a major
Maria went on to serve as Group CEO of Absa for ten and complex corporate restructuring of the company.
142 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 143
Directors’
report
Directors’ remuneration report
“ Rebalancing director
remuneration to strengthen
the alignment between pay
and performance, and to
incentivise outperformance”
I am pleased to present the directors’ remuneration report Key sections
for the year ended 31 December 2024. This report provides
an overview of the Remuneration Committee’s work and Page 150 Remuneration at a glance
decision–making in determining the remuneration for Page 152 Remuneration alignment
executive directors and the wider workforce. The current
directors’ remuneration policy operated throughout 2024 as Page 154 Committee at a glance
intended, incentivising performance linked to the Group’s Page 156 Directors’ remuneration in 2024
strategy and aligning with shareholder interests.
Page 164 Directors’ remuneration policy
The report also sets out details of the new directors’
Page 170 2025 policy implementation for directors
remuneration policy for the period 2025-2027, which will
be put to a shareholder vote at the AGM in May 2025. Page 174 Additional remuneration disclosures
The decisions taken by the Committee were based on
careful consideration of a broad range of factors including
performance across the Group, the economic environment in
our markets, and the need for fair and appropriate reward for
our workforce.
Our performance in 2024
RoTE performance
12% The Group has built upon the significant progress made
10% over the past two years to deliver very strong performance
8% in 2024, including a significant (160bps) year–on–year
increase in return on tangible equity (RoTE) to 11.7 per cent
6%
(on an underlying basis). Underlying profit before tax
4%
is up 21 per cent at constant currency (ccy) on last year.
2% These positive results reflect strong execution of our
0% strategy, combining differentiated cross–border
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024
capabilities with leading wealth management expertise,
and a focus on sustainability across our businesses.
Group scorecard
The Group scorecard, was 63 per cent. Of this, 30 per cent
Financials 30% 50% (out of a possible 50 per cent) related to financial
performance including: underlying income up 13 per cent
year-on-year; exceeding our sustainable finance revenue
Non-financials 33% 50% and sales targets; the increase in RoTE; and achievement
of our costs targets. The remaining 33 per cent (out of
No Committee discretion was used to amend the formulaic a possible 50 per cent) related to the achievement of
scorecard outcome. non-financial goals, including strong client satisfaction
performance and delivery against sustainability and
63% Group scorecard outcome
productivity targets.
See pages 157 and 158 for more information
Financial KPIs
Profit before tax Common Equity Tier 1 ratio Return on tangible equity Total shareholder return
$6,811 14.2% 11.7% 47.5%
m
21% (underlying basis) 19bps 160bps (underlying basis) 2023: 9.4%
Directors’ report Directors’ remuneration report
Summary of 2024 remuneration decisions
• Group performance has been very strong across both financial and non-financial metrics and the Committee has taken
decisions on remuneration that reflect this performance and the delivery against our targets.
• Discretionary incentives are $1,690 million for 2024, up 7 per cent on 2023, reflecting Group performance and affordability,
with average global salary increases of 2.5 per cent for 2025.
• Annual incentives for executive directors, Bill Winters, Group Chief Executive (CEO) and Diego De Giorgi, Group Chief
Financial Officer (GCFO), assessed at 66% of the maximum, are £1,461,874 and £958,320 respectively.
• Projected performance outcome of 88 per cent for the 2022-24 long-term incentive plan (LTIP) awards.
• The 2024 single total figure of remuneration is £10,655,707 for the CEO and £2,769,259 for the GCFO.
• Reward for all Group employees, including the executive directors, continues to be aligned to the Group’s strategic
priorities, through the annual and long-term incentive scorecards.
Group-wide remuneration 2025 salaries
The average global salary increase for 2025 is 2.5 per cent.
2024 discretionary annual incentives
As in previous years, increases will be principally focused
In determining an appropriate incentive pool, the Committee towards junior employees and areas of strategic importance.
considers the Group scorecard outcome alongside For those individuals receiving an increase, the average is circa
additional factors, such as the external environment, market 7 per cent with higher than average increases in South Asia
competitiveness and overall affordability. The Committee and Africa reflecting ongoing cost–of–living challenges.
also considers risk, control and conduct matters, including
ongoing investigations and matters raised by regulators. Executive director remuneration in 2024
Following its review of these factors, the Committee set
Annual incentives for executive directors
an annual incentive pool of $1,690 million, an increase of
Annual incentives for Bill and Diego are based predominantly
7 per cent on 2023.
on the Group scorecard with an additional element for
Discretionary incentive pool personal performance.
Incentive pool % change % change The Committee approved the following annual incentive
($m) (reported) (same store basis) outcomes for 2024, taking account of individual performance
1,690 7 9 assessments, for Bill and Diego. The Committee is satisfied
that these are appropriate given the very strong Group
performance in 2024 and the significant personal
Group-wide initiatives
contributions from Bill and Diego.
Our Fair Pay Charter continues to guide the design and
delivery of reward. In 2024, we saw the benefits of 2024 annual Year-on-year
incentive (£) % of maximum change (%)
initiatives launched in line with the Charter, with more
Bill Winters 1,461,874 66 0
than 2,000 parents using our refreshed global parental
leave policy, the expansion of our menopause support, Diego De Giorgi 958,320 66 –
an enhanced global Employee Assistance Programme
See pages 157 to 160 for further details
and the introduction of local benefits such as emergency
care and neurodiversity support.
2022–24 LTIP awards
We have further embedded continuous feedback,
The 2022–24 LTIP awards are due to start vesting in March
coaching and open two-way performance feedback
2025 with a projected performance outcome of 88 per cent,
and increased individual performance differentiation in
based on RoTE of 11.7 per cent, relative total shareholder
variable pay outcomes.
return (TSR) ranking above upper quartile, and above target
During 2024, we also introduced Appreciate, our global performance against sustainability and other strategic
recognition platform through which colleagues can measures. As usual, the final relative TSR outcome will be
celebrate one another’s achievements and recognise assessed three years from the date of award, in March 2025.
their efforts to live our valued behaviours by awarding The values delivered by this projected outcome are based on
points, which are redeemable against gifts. Around the three-month average share price to 31 December 2024
700,000 recognitions have been made since launch. and are included in the single total figure of remuneration for
Our 2024 Diversity, Equality and Inclusion Impact Report Bill. Diego did not participate in this award.
gives further detail on our Fair Pay Charter and also
2022-24 LTIP
includes our diversity pay gap disclosures and analysis,
Award share Valuation share projected
with detail on the actions we are taking to increase price (£) price (£) outcome (£)
gender and ethnicity representation across the Group. Bill Winters 4.876 9.197 6,125,761
Our Diversity, Equality and Inclusion Impact Report can be found
here: sc.com/fairpayreport The Committee reviewed the assessments that resulted in
the outcome for 2024, and are satisfied that it reflects the
positive performance over the three year period. In addition,
the Committee considered the grant price against that of the
previous year’s award, and against the average share price in
the period leading up to the grant date. The price difference
was not significant and, therefore, the Committee concluded
there was no windfall gain.
See pages 161 and 162 for further details
144 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Directors’ report Directors’ remuneration report
Executive directors’ remuneration in 2025
Subject to the approval of the new directors’ remuneration policy, the table below summaries how the policy will be
implemented in 2025. Full details of the new policy are set out on pages 164 to 169.
New directors’ remuneration policy – implementation in 2025
Fixed remuneration Bill Diego
Salary £1,500,000 £1,100,000
Benefits A range of core benefits, aligned with UK workforce
10% of salary
Pension
£150,000 £110,000
Variable remuneration
Maximum:
Increased annual incentive 270% of salary 220% of salary
opportunity based on Financial measures – 60%
a simplified scorecard Strategic measures – 30%
Personal performance – 10%
Maximum:
Increased long-term incentive 490% of salary 370% of salary
opportunity based on Financial measures: Return on tangible equity 40%;
a simplified scorecard Relative total shareholder return 40%
Non-financial measures: Sustainability 20%
The outcomes of both the annual and long-term incentive plans are subject to a risk and control modifier
Increased shareholder requirements 500% of salary 400% of salary
2025 salaries To reflect the increased long-term remuneration opportunity,
Subject to approval of the directors’ remuneration policy in the RoTE performance range has been increased, and for
May 2025, salaries will be reduced by 40 per cent for Bill and these awards will be 11.5 per cent for a threshold outcome up
by 33 per cent for Diego, effective from 1 April 2025. to 14.5 per cent for a maximum outcome. TSR will continue to
have a performance range of threshold for relative median
2025–27 LTIP awards to be granted in May 2025 ranking up to a maximum outcome for upper quartile ranking.
The Committee will grant 2025-27 LTIP awards to the The sustainability targets are focused on our net zero
executive directors following the AGM on 8 May 2025. pathway and are quantitative in nature. The outcome of
the awards is also subject to a risk and control modifier to
Subject to the approval of the new directors’ remuneration
be assessed based on input from the Group Board Risk
policy, and considering the very strong 2024 Group
Committee to ensure the performance has been delivered
performance, the Committee has approved LTIP awards
with appropriate risk and control management.
for the period of 2025-27 as follows:
2025–27 LTIP See pages 172 and 173 for further details
award (£) % of salary
Bill Winters 7,350,000 490%
Diego De Giorgi 4,070,000 370%
The LTIP awards are dependent on our simplified and
re-focused performance measures and targets by the end
of a three-year performance period.
148 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Directors’ report Directors’ remuneration report
Remuneration alignment
Alignment with...
Our culture Our strategy Our approach
to risk and control
Our performance and Remuneration decisions made The determination of our
reward framework supports across the Group, including remuneration policy and
us in embedding a high– for our executive directors, outcomes align with the
performance culture and align with our strategic Group’s risk and control
aligns with our principle that priorities and our Stands, framework.
colleagues should share in including our commitment
• The Group has a robust formal
the success of the Group. to sustainable social and process for reviewing risk and
economic development. control matters and reflecting these
• Remuneration decisions are
in remuneration outcomes at both
guided by our Fair Pay Charter. • Performance measures in our Group an individual and collective level.
See our 2024 Diversity, Equality and and LTIP scorecards are designed to • The most significant risk and control
Inclusion Impact Report for further drive achievement of the financial
matters are escalated for oversight
details on our Fair Pay Charter
and strategic goals that will deliver
sc.com/fairpayreport by the Remuneration Committee
long-term sustainable value for
and, at year-end, these are
• The wider workforce and our our stakeholders.
reviewed to determine any
executive directors participate • Sustainability is a key consideration impact to Group incentives.
in continuous performance for setting and measuring financial
• Long-term sustainable
management and feedback and strategic targets.
performance is supported through
to ensure that performance
• If scorecard outcomes are not the ability to make adjustments
is discussed and assessed
consistent with progress against to variable remuneration for risk,
throughout the year.
our strategic commitments, the control and conduct behaviours,
• Employee performance is Committee has the discretion to the deferral of variable
assessed based on what is make adjustments. remuneration, and the ability
achieved and how it is achieved in
See page 150 for further details on to apply malus and clawback
line with our valued behaviours. how our incentive plans are aligned where appropriate.
Our remuneration structure and to our strategy
• Incentives for employees engaged
policies ensure that behaviours
in Audit, Risk and Compliance
consistent with these values
functions are set independently
are appropriately recognised
of the businesses they oversee.
and rewarded.
• Our LTIP is subject to an See page 180 for further details
assessment to ensure appropriate
levels of conduct have been
demonstrated to meet our
conduct gateway requirement.
Performance aligned remuneration
The balance between fixed and variable remuneration is geared to provide a greater proportion of fixed remuneration for more
junior employees to give more financial security. In comparison, for more senior employees, including the executive directors,
the variable remuneration opportunity is larger, reflecting their ability to influence the Group’s performance.
Salary Annual incentive LTIP
Senior management
31% 41% 28%
(incl executive directors)
Senior professional 58% 42%
Intermediate professional 79% 21%
Junior professional 88% 12%
Admin/Support 90% 10%
152 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
How does our directors’ remuneration policy address other key features set out in the UK Corporate
Governance Code?
Proportionality Predictability
• In line with our commitment to pay for performance, • The range of possible rewards to individual executive
a significant proportion of executive director pay is directors is set out in the scenario charts on page 170,
delivered through incentives based on performance where we also demonstrate the impact of a 50 per cent
metrics aligned with our strategy. Our new directors’ share price appreciation over the three-year performance
remuneration policy further enhances this with an period of the LTIP.
increased proportion of performance-linked variable pay. • In addition to maximum award levels specified in our
• The Committee sets robust and stretching targets to current and new remuneration policies, the value of
ensure there is a clear link between Group performance incentive awards will vary depending on achievement
and executive director awards. against specified performance targets and the share
• Executive directors’ interests are further aligned with price at the time of delivery for the significant part of
shareholders’ long-term interests through the deferred reward which is delivered in shares.
release of annual incentives and LTIP awards.
Simplicity and clarity
• Malus and clawback provisions apply for up to 10 years
from grant, in alignment with remuneration regulations • Simplicity is a key driver for the structure of our executive
for senior management. No malus or clawback provisions pay, subject to adherence to regulatory requirements
were used during 2024. arising from operating as a UK–regulated bank.
• Shareholding requirements are in place for executive • Our remuneration structure comprises straightforward
directors, requiring them to build and maintain a and well-understood components. The purpose,
significant shareholding in Company shares while in structure, alignment with strategy and consistency
employment and for a period of two years from stepping with arrangements for the wider workforce are clearly
down as a director. Bill currently exceeds his respective set out in the remuneration policy.
shareholding requirements and Diego is continuing to
See pages 164 and 169 for further details
build up his requirement.
• We set and report our performance-related measures,
targets and outcomes in a clear and balanced way.
How is our executive director remuneration aligned to stakeholder experience?
• Remuneration outcomes reflect key financial and non- • The same remuneration principles apply to
financial performance delivered in the year. Sixty per cent of executives and employees, including consistent
the 2025 executive director annual incentive scorecard and benefit and pension provision by location.
80 per cent of the 2025–27 LTIP award will be based on
See pages 164 and 169 for further details
financial performance.
• Variable remuneration awards are based on stretching • Incentives for executive directors are based on a
targets which are subject to robust assessment, set of measures that strongly align with
as evidenced by historical outcomes. those used to determine discretionary
• A significant portion of executive incentives across the Group.
remuneration is paid in shares, and • Measures to improve the overall
shareholding requirements apply. employee experience across
• Post-employment shareholding the Group by creating a better
requirements further reinforce Investors Employees work environment for our
the importance of sustainable employees are included in the
long-term performance. Group scorecard.
• The Committee Chair
regularly engages with
shareholders on
Executive
remuneration matters.
director
remuneration
• The Committee Chair Society and • Sustainability measures
regularly meets with our Regulators and sustainability used within the Group
lead regulators to discuss governments scorecard and LTIP are
our remuneration approach aligned to our Sustainability
and outcomes. Aspirations, reflecting our
• Remuneration outcomes take commitment to sustainable social
into account risk, control and and economic development.
conduct considerations. • The Committee tracks gender
• Pay structures are aligned to and ethnicity pay gaps, and
relevant best practice, including Clients actively monitors the actions
the application of deferrals and being taken to close them.
malus/clawback.
• Remuneration outcomes reflect performance delivered including client-related
performance objectives (e.g., improved client satisfaction).
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 153
Directors’
report
Directors’ report Directors’ remuneration report
Committee at a glance
Committee composition
Who else attended Committee meetings in 2024?
The Group Chairman; Group Chief Executive; Group Chief
Shirish David Robin Maria Linda Financial Officer; GCRO; Chief Strategy & Talent Officer;
Apte Conner1 Lawther, Ramos Yueh, CBE Global Head, Performance, Reward and Benefits; Group
(Chair) CBE Head, Conduct, Financial Crime and Compliance; Group
Company Secretary; Chair of the Audit Committee; Group
Head, Internal Audit.
See pages 106 to 108 for biographical details of the Committee
members
The Committee held one additional ad-hoc meeting in 2024,
attended by four out of the five members. Linda Yueh did
not attend this meeting due to a prior business commitment.
However, she received the papers and provided feedback.
4/4 4/4 4/4 4/4 4/4
1 David Conner stepped down from the Committee on 30 December 2024.
What are the main responsibilities How did the Committee spend their
of the Committee? time during their 2024 meetings?
The Committee is responsible for setting the principles,
parameters and governance framework for the Group’s Executive remuneration, policy and
remuneration policy and overseeing its implementation. shareholder engagement
This includes:
• Determining the framework and policies for the
remuneration of the Group Chairman, the executive 40%
directors and other senior management considering
our Fair Pay Charter, wider workforce remuneration
and alignment with culture and conduct.
• Overseeing the alignment of reward, culture, the
strategic priorities and our Stands. Senior management remuneration
10%
• Approving the Group discretionary remuneration pool,
taking into account all aspects of performance. Group-wide reward, the Fair Pay
Charter and pay diversity
• Overseeing the Fair Pay Charter.
20%
The Committee has written Terms of Reference that
can be viewed at sc.com/termsofreference
Business performance and
risk assessment review
20%
Regulatory and governance
10%
Committee The Committee Chair continues to engage with shareholders
to seek views and feedback on key decisions the Committee
focus during 2024 takes each year. In 2024, shareholders were consulted extensively
on the development of the new directors’ remuneration policy
scheduled to be put to shareholders for approval at the 2025 AGM.
Read more on pages 145 to 147
154 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 155
Directors’
report
How did our shareholders vote?
For Against Withheld
Advisory vote on the 2023 remuneration report at 2024 AGM1 484,724,890 23,766,538 1,611,326
95.3% 4.7%
Binding vote to approve the 2022 directors’ remuneration policy 404,531,068 183,344,607 24,340,637
at 2022 AGM 68.8% 31.2%
1 If withheld votes are considered as part of the overall voting outcome distribution, 95.02 per cent of votes would have been ‘For’ the resolution.
What advice does the Committee receive? How effective was the Committee in 2024?
PwC was re-appointed as the Committee’s remuneration The 2024 Board and Committee’s effectiveness review was
adviser in 2021. The Committee conducts a detailed review of conducted internally, facilitated by the Group Company
potential advisers every three or four years. Secretary, and in accordance with the UK Code.
PwC is a signatory to the voluntary remuneration consulting In a year dominated by the Committee’s review of the new
Code of Conduct. It provides other services to the Group directors’ remuneration policy and consultation with investors
including assurance, advisory, consultancy and tax advice. and shareholder bodies, the feedback on the Committee’s
The Committee is satisfied the advice received was objective functioning and effectiveness was positive and specifically
and independent and that no potential or actual conflict highlighted the following:
arose. The total fees paid to PwC (partly a fixed fee and
• The Committee’s oversight of the policy was highly
partly on a time and materials basis) was GBP142,410, which
rated, and the Chair was commended for leading an
includes advice to the Committee relating to executive
extensive consultation.
directors’ remuneration and regulatory matters.
• Meetings are well run, and presenters convey detailed
The GCFO and Group Chief Risk Officer regularly update the information concisely.
Committee on finance and risk matters and the Committee
• Papers are of high quality and contributions from the Group
also receives input from the Board Risk Committee, Culture
Reward Team were highly rated.
and Sustainability Committee, and Chair of the Board Audit
Committee on relevant matters.
The Committee manages conflicts of interest when receiving
views from senior individuals on remuneration proposals and
no individual is involved in deciding their own pay.
Action plan
The 2024 action plan set out a number of actions arising • Continue to focus on pay for performance across the
from the internally facilitated effectiveness review Group. If approved by shareholders.
conducted in 2023. The action plan was regularly reviewed • Ensure the new Policy continues to align with the
during the year and good progress has been made against Group’s strategy.
the actions, with all of them being completed.
• Consider better leveraging the Investor Relations Team
The 2025 action plan for the Committee reflects to solicit more shareholder views.
suggestions from the 2024 review and continues to
• Improve the oversight of remuneration communications
build on the solid progress made last year:
to ensure more consistent messages.
How does the Committee understand the views of our workforce?
The Committee recognises the importance of seeking feedback from colleagues
on remuneration matters to inform decision-making. The Culture and Sustainability
Committee (CSC) is responsible for the Group’s workforce engagement programme
87%
and provides colleague feedback to the Remuneration Committee to inform
remuneration decision-making. The Committee is also provided with the views
of employees through updates from the annual My Voice and Performance &
of colleagues responded to the Group’s
Reward surveys.
engagement survey, My Voice, which
seeks to understand colleague The Board engages with and listens to the views of employees. In 2024, the Board
sentiment in respect of performance met with colleagues in various markets in specially arranged sessions where
management, the process of giving directors were able to appreciate the challenges, successes, concerns and
and receiving feedback and reward. opportunities shared by colleagues in each of the markets.
See our Culture and Sustainability Committee report on pages 134 to 136 and our Stakeholder
section on pages 38 to 41 for further information on our workforce engagement framework
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 157
Directors’
report
Annual incentive awards for the executive directors
Annual incentive awards for executive directors are based on the assessment of the Group scorecard and personal
performance, in line with the current remuneration policy. For Bill and Diego, the Committee considered the Group scorecard
outcome, individual performance, and risk, control, and conduct-related matters and determined that the scorecard outcome
appropriately reflects performance in 2024. The Committee also determined that both directors exhibited appropriate levels
of conduct and met the gateway requirement to be eligible for an incentive.
The annual incentive outcomes for Bill and Diego are summarised below:
Executive director scorecard outcomes
Bill Winters Diego De Giorgi
Measure Weighting outcome outcome
Financial 50% 30% 30%
Strategic 40% 27% 27%
Personal performance 10% 9% 9%
Total 100% 66% 66%
Maximum annual incentive opportunity (£000) 2,215 1,452
Annual incentive outcome (£000) 1,462 958
Assessment of the 2024 scorecard – financial measures
Threshold Maximum
Measure Weighting (0%) (100%) Achievement Outcome
Income1 ($) 9% 18.3bn 19.9bn 19.7bn 8%
CIB Sustainable Finance Income2 ($) 3% 864m 936m 1.0bn 3%
Costs ($) 8% 12.1bn 11.2bn 11.7bn 4%
RoTE3 with a CET14 underpin of the higher of 30% 10.1% 12.4% 11.7% 15%
13% or the minimum regulatory requirement CET1 of 14.2%
1 The Group’s reported performance is adjusted for profits or losses of a capital nature, amounts consequent to investment transactions driven by strategic intent,
other infrequent and/or exceptional transactions that are significant or material in the context of the Group’s normal business earnings for the period and items
which management and investors would ordinarily identify separately when assessing underlying performance period by period.
2 CCIB name changed to CIB in 2024
3 Underlying RoTE represents the ratio of the current year’s underlying profit attributable to ordinary shareholders plus fair value on other comprehensive income
equity movement relating to Ventures segment to the weighted average tangible equity, being ordinary shareholders’ equity less the intangible assets for the
reporting period. Underlying RoTE normally excludes material regulatory fines and certain other adjustments but, for remuneration purposes, this would be
subject to review by the Committee
4 The CET1 underpin was set at the higher of 13 per cent or the minimum regulatory level as at 31 December 2024. In addition, the Committee has the discretion
to take into account at the end of the performance period any changes in regulatory capital and risk-weighted asset requirements that might have been
announced and implemented after the start of the performance period
Assessment of the 2024 scorecard – strategic measures
Clients (Network, Affluent, Mass)
Target Assessment
• Improve client satisfaction and client • Client satisfaction ratings were exceptional, with strong
experience ratings WRB Net Promoter and CIB Client Engagement results.
• Deliver cross border income growth in CIB • Increased CIB cross border income to $7.3 billion (versus
• Deliver network growth in qualified clients across $6.9 billion in 2023).
Affluent activity • Affluent income growth outperformed ($293 million versus
• Mass market retail growth through new-to-bank $213 million in 2023) driven by a focus on our International
personal customers Clients strategy.
• Grow value of Ventures • Mass market retail growth from over 1.8 million new
Partnership active clients and new affluent sign-ups.
• Ventures value grew, driven by Mox and Trust new
customers and Ventures institutional clients.
Weighting – 12% Outcome – 9%
Sustainability
Target Assessment
• Meeting key milestones through building • Achieved all milestones set for 2024.
infrastructure relating to client, transaction and • Total financed emissions are tracking well below our risk
central data for delivering on our net zero ambition. appetite across all key sectors (Oil & Gas, Power, Automobile
• Reducing our financed emissions for key sectors in Manufactures, and Steel).
line with our risk appetite and based on interim • Reduction in Scope 1 and 2 emissions are tracking to exceed
2030 sectoral targets. targets with the completion of major key projects reducing
• Reducing Scope 1 and 2 emissions in line with our carbon emissions globally.
operational net zero target by 2025.
Weighting – 4% Outcome – 4%
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 159
Directors’
report
Financial performance and risk and controls
• Further • Bill implemented significant positive transformation through the elimination of regional
progress structures and streamlining management layers, reducing friction and allowing us to
towards an operate more efficiently.
efficient and • The transformation agenda continues to progress under Bill’s leadership, with a strong focus
more profitable on communicating the importance of, and the benefits from, the transformation.
Bank while
maintaining – In our annual My Voice all-employee survey, nearly 90% of colleagues felt we were
focus on risk adapting our ways of working to deliver the strategy.
and control. – 85% of colleagues indicated they are clear on the desired outcomes and benefits of our
Fit for Growth programme.
– We have identified and are funding over 140 initiatives for simplifying, standardising
and digitising operations, with the aim of generating more than $1.5 billion of
sustainable saves.
• Bill has overseen significant enhancements to the Group’s Technology & Operations control
framework to ensure the security of our digital portfolio, and ensured momentum was
maintained following the departure of the Group Chief Technology, Operations and
Transformation Officer during the year.
• Bill continues to personally champion the sustainability agenda both for the Bank and the
industry more widely, and the Bank has continued to be recognised as an industry leader.
– Bill is a member of the GFANZ Principals Group, a founding member of the World Bank
Private Sector Investment Lab, and sits on the Distinguished Advisory Group of the
Integrity Council for Voluntary Carbon Markets and the board of Climate Impact X (CIX).
The Bank contributed to the UK Transition Finance Market Review.
– We achieved first place in Climate X’s assessment of the world’s largest commercial banks
climate adaptation maturity.
Innovation
• Further • Bill has continued to champion and role-model an innovation mindset across the Group,
promote our including targeted training for the Management Team. Over 330 ideas from 14 Innovation
culture of Challenges were launched in 2024, and over 300 employees have been upskilled in
innovation innovation techniques.
and maximise • Bill is a leading advocate for our Ventures business, which complements the services offered
synergies by the traditional bank by addressing the digital banking and lifestyle needs of retail clients,
between the with a portfolio of fast growing banks (Mox, Trust), banking-as-a-service (Audax), digital
main bank retail onboarding (Appro), and financial planning and wealth management (Vault22).
and our Good progress also made in partnership with CIB, in building institutional grade digital
SC Ventures. assets with capabilities from issuance to settlement products, and in developing distinct
business models to support trade and supply chains (e.g., Olea).
• We have seen increasing client demand and validation for these solutions and are receiving
industry recognition.
– Trust, founded in 2022, is the fourth largest retail bank in Singapore by customer size,
Appro won the grand prize at the Fintech World Cup during Dubai FinTech Summit
and Audax was named amongst the 20 Hottest Startups of 2024 by Singapore
Business Review.
• In 2024, Bill added the CEO of SC Ventures to the Management Team to reinforce the strong
connections between our businesses, functions and ventures.
People and culture
• Continue to • Bill has led the Group through major senior management transitions in 2024, including the
build a high successful onboarding of Diego De Giorgi as GCFO, and Roberto Hoornweg and Sunil
performance Kaushal as co-heads of CIB.
environment • Bill also oversaw the departure of Management Team members and expanded the
and embed responsibilities of others, increasing resilience, and creating opportunities for growth and
the culture of a stronger pipeline for succession.
excellence.
• There has been continued focus on building and embedding a culture of excellence across
the Group with an emphasise on high-performance, feedback, recognition and a focus on
clear differentiation in pay outcomes to reflect performance.
• Bill has instilled a high level of energy and positivity into the organisation which can be
challenging in a year of substantial change. He encouraged colleagues to align their focus
to the delivery of the clear strategic priorities we have set.
– In our annual My Voice survey, nearly 90% of colleagues indicated that they understand
the Bank’s strategy and believe it will enable us to be more competitive.
Weighting – 10% Outcome – 9%
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 161
Directors’
report
LTIP awards
The LTIP values included in the single total figure of remuneration for 2024 are based on the awards that will be subject to
final performance testing in March 2025. These awards were granted in 2022 with a face value of 120 per cent of fixed pay,
to incentivise the achievement of the Group’s priorities over the three-year period 2022 to 2024. The awards are share-based
and are subject to the performance targets set out below which were set when the awards were granted and have not been
adjusted since.
A conduct gateway requirement must be met before any awards vest. The Committee concluded that Bill exhibited
appropriate conduct during the performance period and, therefore, the conduct gateway was met. Diego did not participate
in this award.
RoTE performance of 11.7 per cent was achieved, resulting in a 30 per cent outcome and relative TSR is projected to be ranked
above upper quartile resulting in a projected outcome of 30 per cent. The Committee considered performance against the
sustainability and strategic proof points set out in the table below and determined that an outcome of 28 per cent was
appropriate. Based on these assessments, the total projected performance outcome is 88 per cent. The final relative TSR
performance will be assessed in March 2025 and any change to the overall outcome will be reported in the 2025 directors’
remuneration report.
The awards will vest pro rata over 2025 to 2029 and the shares will be subject to a 12-month retention period post-vesting.
Malus and clawback provisions apply.
2022-24 LTIP projected outcome for Bill Winters
2022-24 LTIP projected
Award share price (£) Projected outcome Valuation share price (£) outcome (£000)
Bill Winters 4.876 88% 9.197 6,126
See page 156 for the value attributable to share price growth in the single total figure of remuneration
Projected performance outcome
Minimum Maximum
performance performance Assessment of Outcome Projected
Measure Weighting (25% outcome) (100% outcome) achievement status outcome
RoTE1 in 2024 plus CET12 30% 7% 11% RoTE 11.7% and Confirmed 30%
underpin of the higher CET1 14.2%
of 13% or the minimum
regulatory requirement
Relative TSR 30% Median Upper quartile Currently estimated Projected 30%
performance against above upper quartile
peer group
Sustainability 15% Targets set for sustainability Above target Confirmed 14%
measures linked to the performance
business strategy achieved
Other strategic 25% Targets set for strategic measures Above target Confirmed 14%
measures linked to the business strategy performance
achieved
Total 2022-24 LTIP awards projected outcomes 88%
1 Underlying RoTE represents the ratio of the current year’s underlying profit attributable to ordinary shareholders plus fair value on other comprehensive income
equity movement relating to Ventures segment to the weighted average tangible equity, being ordinary shareholders’ equity less the intangible assets for the
reporting period. Underlying RoTE normally excludes material regulatory fines and certain other adjustments but, for remuneration purposes, this would be
subject to review by the Committee
2 The CET1 underpin was set at the higher of 13 per cent or the minimum regulatory level at 31 December 2024. In addition, the Committee has the discretion to take
into account at the end of the performance period any changes in regulatory capital and risk-weighted asset requirements that might have been announced and
implemented after the start of the performance period
3 Final TSR performance will be assessed three years from the date of award, in March 2025
Assessment of non-financial measures
Sustainability
Proof point Assessment
• Implement roadmap to achieve aim of net zero • Partial vesting on the basis that 2022 targets were not
by 2050 fully achieved. Commitments were fully achieved in 2023
and 2024.
• Progress towards target of $300 billion in green and • We have exceeded our target of mobilising $30 billion
transition finance between 2021 and 2030 aligned per year over the period and are on track to meet the 2030
with our Green and Sustainable Product Framework commitment of $300 billion.
and Transition Finance Framework
• Progress on goal for clients in carbon-intensive • Financed emissions continue to decrease from baseline
industries to have a strategy to transition their and remain under risk appetite limits within four of the
business in line with the Paris Agreement most carbon intensive sectors: Oil & Gas; Power; Steel; Auto.
Directors’ report Directors’ remuneration report
Responsible company
Proof point Assessment
• Lift participation of small businesses • We have made progress against our goals to lift the participation of
through increasing access to female entrepreneurs and SMEs, and to support companies to improve
financial services working and environmental standards.
• However, we have not achieved the targets originally set in 2022 and,
• Support companies to improve
as such, have not allocated any vesting for these measures.
working and environmental standards
Clients (Network, Affluent, Mass and Ventures)
Proof point Assessment
• Improve client satisfaction rating • Strong performance across all three years based on strengthening of
evidenced in surveys and internal CIB engagement and experience scores and WRB net promoter score.
benchmarks
• Deliver growth in affluent wealth client • Partial outcome based on strong performance in Affluent Network growth
activity and increase the number of for 2024 and 2023, following weaker performance in 2022, which was
active personal clients adversely impacted by COVID lockdowns, the Russia-Ukraine war and
aggressive FED rate hikes.
• Deliver network income growth in • Strong cross border income performance across all three years driven by
Corporate, Commercial & Institutional higher underlying growth.
Banking (now CIB)
• Grow value of Digital Ventures • Partial outcome based on exceeding targets in 2024 and 2023, driven by
Mox and Trust new to bank customers, and SCV Institutional Clients growth
(2024 only), following weaker performance in 2022, which was adversely
impacted by market volatility and delays to ventures launches.
Enablers (Innovation, new ways of working and people)
Proof point Assessment
• Increase senior female representation • Female representation was 33.1% in 2024, 32.5% in 2023, and 32.1% in 2022,
to 34 per cent versus a starting point of 30.7% at the end of 2021.
• However, we only achieved our annual target in 2022 resulting in
partial vesting.
• Improve employee engagement • Employee net promoter score targets exceeded in all three years. The final
target of 17.4 for 2024 was exceeded two years early, in 2022, and remained
above target throughout the period, reaching a high of 25.6 in 2023.
• Increase our culture of inclusion • The My Voice 2024 inclusion score was 82.1% versus a target of 84.6%
score (internal index) • While the position has improved from the 2021 baseline of 80.1%, we did
not achieve our annual targets and we have not allocated any vesting for
the measure.
• Improve employee perception • The My Voice score for this measure was 73% for 2024, which has been
of innovation broadly flat since 2022.
• However, this is below the baseline of 76% in 2021 and we did not achieve
our annual targets. As such, we have not allocated any vesting for
the measure.
Responsibility and controls
Proof point Assessment
• Improve effectiveness of risk and • We achieved or exceeded our non-financial risk reduction targets in 2023
control governance and 2024, but only partially achieved targets in 2022.
• Partial vesting given Audit self-identified issues are below the target
threshold in 2024.
• Successfully deliver milestones within • We have continued to reduce our Cyber Risk profile over the period,
the information and cyber security risk including the delivery of the Information and Cyber Security strategic plan,
management plan with all objectives achieved.
Windfall gains the previous year and, being comfortable that the change was
negligible, at (0.5) per cent, determined not to adjust the size of
the awards.
When making LTIP awards the Committee reviews the proposed
size of the award and considers the change in share price in the The Committee further reviews any increase in share price at the
period leading up to the award compared with the share price end of the performance period, when awards are due to begin
when awards were made in the previous year. A significant fall vesting, and considers if any adjustment should be made where
in share price will increase the overall number of shares being an increase in share price is not reflective of a corresponding
awarded, and the Committee considers this, being mindful of improvement in underlying financial performance. To date no
the potential for a ‘windfall gain’. For awards made in 2022 the adjustments have been made.
Committee reviewed the change in share price compared with
162 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 171
Directors’
report
2025 annual incentive scorecard
Our annual incentive scorecard reflects our strategic priorities. Targets are set annually by the Committee based on the Group’s
annual financial plans and strategic priorities. Targets and performance achieved will be disclosed retrospectively in the 2025
Annual Report due to commercial sensitivity.
Financial measures make up 60 per cent of the scorecard. The Committee assesses strategic and personal measures using
a quantitative and qualitative framework. The overall outcome will be subject to a risk and control modifier, assessed over
the year.
2025 scorecard – financial measures
Measure Weighting Target
Income1 20%
Costs 20%
Targets to be disclosed retrospectively
RoTE2 with a CET13 underpin of the higher of 13% or the 20%
minimum regulatory requirement
1 The Group’s reported performance is adjusted for profits or losses of a capital nature, amounts consequent to investment transactions driven by strategic intent,
other infrequent and/or exceptional transactions that are significant or material in the context of the Group’s normal business earnings for the period and items
which management and investors would ordinarily identify separately when assessing underlying performance period by period
2 Underlying RoTE represents the ratio of the current year’s underlying profit attributable to ordinary shareholders plus fair value on other comprehensive income
equity movement relating to Ventures segment to the weighted average tangible equity, being ordinary shareholders’ equity less the intangible assets for the
reporting period. Underlying RoTE normally excludes material regulatory fines and certain other adjustments but, for remuneration purposes, this would be
subject to review by the Committee
3 The CET1 underpin will be set at the higher of 13 per cent or the minimum regulatory level as at 31 December 2025. In addition, the Committee has the discretion
to take into account at the end of the performance period any changes in regulatory capital and risk-weighted asset requirements that might have been
announced and implemented after the start of the performance period
2025 scorecard – strategic measures
Clients (Network, Affluent)
Target
• Deliver cross-border income growth in CIB
• Grow Net New Money from new and existing Affluent clients Weighting – 10%
Sustainability
Target
• Grow sustainable finance revenue
• Reduce emissions from our own operations (scope 1 and 2 emissions) to net zero by the end Weighting – 10%
of 2025
Productivity and transformation
Target
• Execute on our most critical transformation programmes
• Execute on our Fit For Growth objectives to simply, standardise, and digitise the Bank Weighting – 5%
People and culture
Target
• Delivery of our commitment to have 35 per cent females in senior leadership positions, at a
global level, by 20251 Weighting – 5%
• Improve our ‘culture of inclusion’ score (internal index)
1 Subject to local legal requirements
2025 scorecard – personal performance measures
Bill – performance goals
Target
• Support and ensure a smooth transition of the Group Chair, and continue to develop the senior
internal succession pool.
• Lead and support delivery of the strategy through relentless execution under a strong risk and
controls framework, to produce higher and sustained profitable growth.
• Continue to advance internal transformation, ensuring the Bank progresses and delivers key
Weighting – 10%
change management initiatives, including Fit for Growth.
• Promote and develop an innovation culture throughout the Bank, including in products and
services, increasing connectivity between Ventures and the rest of the Bank.
• Continue to develop and embed an ambitious, high performance culture, while retaining the
best of the Bank’s traditional culture.
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 173
Directors’
report
Non-financial measures for 2025-27 LTIP awards
Sustainability
• Progress towards our $300 billion sustainable finance mobilisation target.
• Net zero sector decarbonisation:
– Monitoring of 12 net zero high carbon sectors, being assessed on annual year-on-year reductions. See pages 78 to 88
for further details.
– Outcome based on the number of sectors reducing emissions intensity.
Weighting – 20%
INED fees
The Board regularly reviews the fee levels, considering market data and the duties, time commitment and contribution
expected for the PLC Board and, where appropriate, subsidiary boards. Considering the increasing demands made of our
INEDs, the Board determined an increase in INED basic fees of £3,000 to £118,000 to be appropriate. The revised fees are
effective from 1 January 2025.
The Chairman and the INEDs are eligible for benefits in line with the directors’ remuneration policy. Neither the Chairman or
INEDs receive any performance-related remuneration.
Our Chair and independent non-executive directors’ remuneration policy is on page 169 of this report and on our website at sc.com
Role Annual fee
Group Chairman1 £1,293,000
Senior Independent Director £45,000
Independent Non-Executive Director £118,000
Committee Member fee Chair fee
Audit, Board Risk, Remuneration £40,000 £80,000
Culture and Sustainability £35,000 £70,000
Governance and Nomination £17,000 Nil
1 The Group Chairman receives a stand-alone fee which is inclusive of all services (including Board and Committee responsibilities). The Group does not currently
utilise the role of Deputy Chairman and does not plan to do so
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 179
Directors’
report
Historical LTIP awards
The current projected outcome for in-flight LTIP awards from the 2023 and 2024 performance years based on current
performance as at 31 December 2024 is set out in the tables below.
Current position on the 2023 – 25 LTIP award: projected partial performance outcome
2023 – 25 LTIP assessment as of
Measure Weighting Minimum (25%) Maximum (100%) 31 December 2024
RoTE1 in 2025 with a CET12 underpin 30% 10% 12.5% RoTE between threshold
of the higher of 13% or the and maximum: indicative
minimum regulatory requirement partial outcome
Relative TSR performance 30% Median Upper quartile TSR positioned below the
against peer group median: indicative zero outcome
Sustainability 15% Targets set for sustainability Performance tracking above
measures linked to the target: indicative partial
business strategy outcome
Other strategic measures 25% Targets set for strategic Performance tracking above
measures linked to the target: indicative partial
business strategy outcome
1 Underlying RoTE represents the ratio of the current year’s underlying operating profit attributable to ordinary shareholders to the weighted average ordinary
shareholders’ equity less the average goodwill and intangibles for the reporting period. Underlying RoTE normally excludes regulatory fines and certain other
adjustments but, for remuneration purposes, such adjustments are subject to review by the Committee.
2 The CET1 underpin will be set at the higher of 13 per cent or the minimum regulatory level as at 31 December 2025. In addition, the Committee has the discretion
to take into account at the end of the performance period any changes in regulatory capital and risk-weighted asset requirements that might have been
announced and implemented after the start of the performance period.
Current position on the 2024 – 26 LTIP award: projected partial performance outcome
Maximum (100%) 2024 – 26 LTIP assessment as of
Measure Weighting Minimum (25%) 31 December 2024
RoTE1 in 2026 with a CET12 underpin 30% 10% 13% RoTE above maximum:
of the higher of 13% or the indicative full outcome
minimum regulatory requirement
Relative TSR performance 30% Median Upper quartile TSR positioned above upper
against peer group quartile: indicative full outcome
Sustainability 25% Targets set for sustainability Performance tracking on target:
measures linked to the indicative partial outcome
business strategy
Other strategic measures 15% Targets set for strategic Performance tracking on target:
measures linked to the indicative partial outcome
business strategy
1 Underlying RoTE represents the ratio of the current year’s underlying operating profit attributable to ordinary shareholders to the weighted average ordinary
shareholders’ equity less the average goodwill and intangibles for the reporting period. Underlying RoTE normally excludes regulatory fines and certain other
adjustments but, for remuneration purposes, such adjustments are subject to review by the Committee.
2 The CET1 underpin will be set at the higher of 13 per cent or the minimum regulatory level as of 31 December 2026. In addition, the Committee has the discretion
to take into account at the end of the performance period any changes in regulatory capital and risk-weighted asset requirements that might have been
announced and implemented after the start of the performance period, for example in relation to Basel IV.
The Committee assesses the outcome value of LTIP awards on vesting and has the flexibility to adjust if the formulaic outcome
is not considered to be an appropriate reflection of the performance achieved and to avoid windfall gains.
Directors’ report Other disclosures
Other statutory and regulatory disclosures
This section sets out additional information required to be included in the Directors’ report. Where set out elsewhere in the
report, the information in the tables below is incorporated by reference. The Group operates in the UK and overseas through
a number of subsidiaries, branches and offices. Information about the principal activities of the Group is set out in the
Strategic report.
Disclosures required pursuant to Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and
Reports) Regulations 2008
Engagement with customers, suppliers and others See pages 35 to 38 of the Strategic report
Engagement with employees See pages 38 to 41 of the Strategic report in addition to page 188 of this
Directors’ report
Post balance sheet events See Note 37 to the Financial statements
Directors’ interests See page 163 of the Directors’ remuneration report. As at 14 February 2024,
there had been no changes to those interests in relation to directors remaining
in office at that date
Future developments in the Group’s business See the Strategic report
Debt and Equity capital Notes 22 and 28 to the Financial statements in addition to pages 184 to 185 of
this Directors’ report
Loan capital Notes 22 and 27 to the Financial statements
Share buyback Note 28 to the Financial statements in addition to page 185 of this Directors’
report
Financial instruments See Risk review and Capital review on pages 193 and 270
The Group’s 2024 financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the principles of the UK Finance Disclosure Code
for Financial Reporting Disclosure.
Disclosures required under UK Listing Rule 6.6.1
UKLR 6.6.1 (11-12) (Waiver of dividends) See Note 28 to the Financial Statements
UKLR 6.6.1 (1) (2) (3-10) (13) N/A
Application of the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code
Board leadership and company purpose Section Page
A – Promoting long-term sustainable success and value Strategic report 2 - 46
Board of Director 105 - 109
B – Purpose, value, strategy and alignment with culture Who we are and what we do 2 - 3
Our strategy 18
Integrity, conduct and ethics 95 - 97
Group Code of Conduct 190
C – Performance measures, controls and risk management Key performance indicators 12 - 13
Enterprise Risk Management Framework 196 - 200
D – Shareholder and other stakeholder engagement Section 172 statement 35 - 41
E – Workforce policies and practices Employment engagement and Employee policies 188
Division of Responsibilities
F – Chair role and responsibilities Our corporate governance 113
G – Board roles and responsibilities Our corporate governance 113
H – Non-executive directors’ role and capacity Our corporate governance 113
Board activities and attendance 114
External appointments and independence 120
I – Board effectiveness and efficiency Director training and development 117 - 118
Board effectiveness 119 - 120
Composition, succession and evaluation
J – Board appointments and succession plans Governance and Nomination Committee report 137
K – Board skills, experience, knowledge and tenure Board of Directors 105 - 109
L – Board evaluation of composition, diversity and effectiveness Board effectiveness 119 - 120
Individual performance 118
182 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 183
Directors’
report
Application of the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code continued
Section Page
Audit, risk and internal control
M – Independence and effectiveness of internal and external Audit Committee report 123 - 128
audit functions, integrity of financial and narrative statements Non-audit services 190 - 191
N – Fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Audit Committee report 123 - 128
Company’s position and prospects Fair, Balanced and Understandable 125
O – Risk management and internal controls Risk review 194 - 269
Remuneration
P – Remuneration policies and practices Remuneration Committee report 143 - 174
Q – Procedure for developing remuneration policy Remuneration Committee Terms of Reference
R – Independent judgement and discretion when authorising Remuneration Committee Terms of Reference
remuneration outcomes
ESG Disclosures
Hong Kong Listing Rules We comply with the requirements of the ESG Reporting Guide contained in Appendix C2 to
Appendix C2 The Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited.
With respect to the KPIs noted in Part C: ‘Comply or explain’ provisions, the Group does not
report on KPI A1.3 and KPI A1.6 related to the production and handling of hazardous waste; KPI
A2.5 related to packaging materials used for finished products; KPI B6.1 total products recalled
due to safety and health reasons; and KPI B6.4 product recall procedures. As an office-based
financial services provider these issues were not deemed material. For further information
related to Aspect B4 Labour Standards and B5 Supply Chain Management, please also refer
to the Group’s annual Modern Slavery Statement.
Task Force on Climate-related In line with our ‘comply or explain’ obligation under the UK’s FCA’s Listing Rule 6.6.6R (8), we can
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) confirm that we have made disclosures consistent with the TCFD recommendations as per
Section C – Guidance for All Sectors and Section D – Supplemental Guidance for the Financial
Sector: Banks of the 2021 TCFD Implementing Guidance in this Annual Report. Please refer to
our TCFD reporting index on pages 43 to 44.
Aspect B4 Labour Standards and B5 Refer also to the Group’s annual Modern Slavery Statement (see below).
Supply Chain Management
Non-financial and sustainability See page 42 of the Strategic report.
information statement
Modern slavery The Group publishes a Modern Slavery Statement under the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 and
the Australian Modern Slavery Act 2018 for the financial year ending 31 December 2024.
See more via sc.com/modernslavery
Sustainable finance taxonomies Streamlined energy and carbon reporting
Standard Chartered continues to assess the applicability
Environmental impact of our operations
of sustainable finance taxonomies across the Group’s
We aim to minimise the environmental impact of our
footprint. Reporting has commenced in several markets
operations as part of our commitment to be a responsible
in accordance with local sustainable finance taxonomy
company. We report on the actions we take to reduce energy
regulatory requirements.
and water usage and non-hazardous waste generated in our
The Group will continue to consider applicable taxonomy operations in the Sustainability review on page 77 and in the
alignment in our business decisions, including at a client ESG Data Pack at sc.com/sustainabilitylibrary.
and transaction level, as well as more broadly at a sector
Our reporting methodology is based on ‘The Greenhouse
strategy level. Given our footprint across Europe and the UK,
Gas (GHG) Protocol – A Corporate Accounting and Reporting
Asia, Africa and the Middle East, we need to continually
Standard (Revised Edition)’. We have adopted the operational
assess taxonomy alignment requirements based on
control approach to define our reporting boundary for GHG
information available from clients and through our due
Scope 1 and 2 emissions. For Scope 3 financed and facilitated
diligence processes.
emissions, boundaries are noted for each high-emitting sector
in the ‘Our approach to measuring financed emissions’ table
in the Sustainability review on page 81.
Information on the principles and methodologies used to calculate
the GHG emissions of the Group can be found in our Environmental
Reporting Criteria document at sc.com/environmentcriteria
Directors’ report Other disclosures
Reporting period, boundary and scope calendar year used in financial reporting. The reporting
We report on sustainability and environmental, social and periods for other sustainability information in this Annual
governance (ESG) matters throughout this Annual Report, Report may differ and are set out on page 61.
in particular in the following sections: (i) Strategic report, As we aim to improve our emissions measurement and
Sustainability overview on pages 42 to 44; (ii) Sustainability reporting year-on-year, we have included leased vehicle fleet
review on pages 58 to 94; (iii) Risk review on pages 194 to 269; emissions in our Scope 1 figures in 2024. Apart from that, there
and (iv) in the Supplementary sustainability information was no significant change in the boundary and scope of our
section on pages 393 to 395. Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions reported in this Annual Report
The reporting period for Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions and from that of Standard Chartered PLC Annual Report 2023,
energy consumption is from 1 October 2023 to 30 September published on 23 February 2024.
2024. This allows sufficient time for independent third-party
assurance to be completed prior to the publication of the Assurance
Group’s Annual Report. Accordingly, the operating income Our Scope 1 and 2 emissions are assured (limited level) by an
used in the GHG emissions and energy consumption data independent company, Global Documentation, against the
table below for associated environmental intensity metrics requirements of ISO 14064.
corresponds to the same time period, rather than the
GHG emissions and energy consumption data
The Group has disclosed Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions and energy consumption data as required by the Large and
Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008.
Units 2024 2023 2022
Reporting coverage of data
Annual operating income from 1 October to 30 September $ million 19,110 17,414 15,863
Net internal area of occupied property m2 850,817 880,515 946,234
GHG emissions
Scope 1 & 2:
Scope 1 emissions ¹ tCOe 7,696 8,488 2,071
2
Scope 2 emissions (location-based)² tCOe 82,837 85,741 89,410
2
Scope 2 emissions (market-based)3 tCOe 17,272 26,246 47,363
2
Scope 1 & 2 emissions (market-based)3 tCOe 24,968 34,734 49,434
2
Scope 1 & 2 emissions (UK and offshore area only) tCOe – 248 –
2
GHG emissions – Intensity:
Total Scope 1 &2 emissions (market-based) intensity tCOe/$ million 1 2 3
2
Environmental resource efficiency
Energy
Indirect non-renewable energy consumption GWh 125 142 142
Indirect renewable energy consumption GWh 14 16 24
Direct non-renewable energy consumption GWh 12 13 10
Direct renewable energy consumption GWh 2 2 1
Energy consumption GWh 154 173 177
Energy consumption (UK and offshore area only) GWh 7 6 6
1 As we aim to improve our emissions measurement and reporting year-on-year, we have included leased vehicle fleet emissions in our Scope 1 figures in 2024
(1,340 tCO2e) and fugitive emissions since 2023. (3,877 tCO2e in 2024 and 5,266 tCO2e in 2023). 2022 data was not available for fugitive emissions
2 Location-based emissions have been restated for prior comparative periods. Emissions erroneously included renewable energy certificates and power purchase
agreements. Other Scope 2 reductions outside clean power are attributed to footprint reduction and efficiency gains
3 Market-based emissions have decreased from 2022 to 2023 due to footprint reduction, efficiency gains and the purchase of additional energy attribution
certificates by the Group
Further detail on our environment performance and the independent assurance report can be found in our ESG data pack at sc.com/sustainabilitylibrary;
associated assumptions and methodologies in our reporting criteria document at sc.com/environmentcriteria
Share capital, constitution and shareholder rights
Share capital in issue The remaining 16.8 per cent comprises preference shares,
The issued ordinary share capital of the Company was which have preferential rights to income and capital but
reduced by a total of 239,528,930 over the course of 2024 which, in general, do not confer a right to attend and vote at
This was due to the cancellation of ordinary shares as part of our general meetings.
the Company’s two share buyback programmes. No ordinary There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor
shares were issued during the year. The Company has one on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the
class of ordinary shares, which carries no rights to fixed Articles of Association and prevailing legislation. There are
income. On a show of hands, each member present has no specific restrictions on voting rights and the directors
the right to one vote at our general meetings. On a poll, are not aware of any agreements between holders of the
each member is entitled to one vote for every share held. Company’s shares that may result in restrictions on the
The issued nominal value of the ordinary shares represents transfer of securities or on voting rights. No person has any
83.2 per cent of the total issued nominal value of all share special rights of control over the Company’s share capital
capital. and all issued shares are fully paid.
184 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Directors’ report Other disclosures
At no time during the year did any director hold a material On 19 November 2024, the HKEx extended a waiver (the
interest in any contracts of significance (as defined in the Waiver) it previously granted to the Company for the revenue
Hong Kong Listing Rules) with the Company or any of its banking transactions with Temasek which do not fall under
subsidiary undertakings. In accordance with the Companies the passive investor exemption (the Passive Investor
Act 2006, we have established a process requiring directors Exemption) under Rules 14A.99 and 14A.100 of the HK Listing
to disclose proposed outside business interests before any Rules. Under the Waiver, the HKEx agreed to waive the
are entered into. This enables prior assessment of any conflict announcement requirement, the requirements to enter into
or potential conflict of interest and any impact on time written agreements and to set annual caps, and the annual
commitment. On behalf of the Board, the Governance and report disclosure (including annual review) requirements
Nomination Committee reviews potential and existing under Chapter 14A of the HK Listing Rules for the three-year
conflicts of interest annually to consider if they continue to be period ending 31 December 2027 on the conditions that:
conflicts of interest, and also to revisit the terms upon which
a) The Company will disclose details of the Waiver (including
they were authorised. The Board is satisfied that our processes
nature of the revenue banking transactions with Temasek
in this respect continue to operate effectively.
and reasons for the Waiver) in subsequent annual reports;
The Company has granted indemnities to all of its directors and
on terms consistent with the applicable statutory provisions.
b) The Company will continue to monitor the revenue banking
Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions for the purposes
transactions with Temasek during the three years ending
of section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 were accordingly
31 December 2027 to ensure that the 5 per cent threshold
in force during the course of the financial year ended
for the revenue ratio will not be exceeded.
31 December 2024 and remain in force at the date of this
report. Qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions The main reasons for seeking the Waiver were:
(as defined by section 235 of the Companies Act 2006) • The nature and terms of revenue banking transactions
were in force during the course of the financial year ended may vary and evolve over time and the transactions may
31 December 2024 for the benefit of the UK’s pension fund be subject to the change in financial and capital markets
corporate trustee (Standard Chartered Trustees (UK) Limited), outlook. As a result of that, having fixed-term written
and remain in force at the date of this report. agreements would not be suitable to accommodate the
various banking needs of the Company’s customers
Significant and related/connected party (including Temasek).
contracts and arrangements
• It would be impracticable to estimate and determine an
The Company is not party to any significant agreements that annual cap on the revenue banking transactions with
would take effect, alter or terminate following a change of Temasek as the volume and aggregate value of each
control of the Company. The Company does not have transaction are uncertain and unknown to the Company
agreements with any director or employee that would provide as a banking group due to multiple factors including
compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from market-driven factors.
a takeover, except that provisions of the Company’s share
• The revenues generated from revenue banking transactions
schemes and plans may cause awards granted to employees
were insignificant. Without a waiver from the HKEx or an
under such schemes and plans to vest on a takeover, subject
applicable exemption, these transactions would be subject
to any regulatory or tax considerations that may prevent this.
to various percentage ratio tests which cater for different
Details of transactions with directors and officers and other types of connected transactions and as such may produce
related parties (within the meaning of IAS 24) are set out in anomalous results.
Note 36 to the financial statements.
For the year ended 31 December 2024, the Group provided
Transactions with Temasek Temasek with money market revenue transactions that were
revenue transactions in nature.
By virtue of its shareholding of over 10 per cent in the
Company, Temasek and its associates are connected persons As a result of the Passive Investor Exemption and the Waiver,
of the Company for the purpose of the Rules Governing the the vast majority of the Company’s transactions with Temasek
Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong and its associates fall outside of the connected transactions
Limited (HKEx) (the HK Listing Rules). regime. However, non-revenue transactions with Temasek or
any of its associates continue to be subject to monitoring for
The HK Listing Rules are intended to ensure that there is no
connected transaction issues.
favourable treatment to Temasek or its associates to the
detriment of other shareholders in the Company. Unless The Company confirms that:
transactions between the Group and Temasek or its
• the revenue banking transactions entered into with
associates are specifically exempt under the HK Listing
Temasek and its associates in 2024 were below the
Rules or are subject to a specific waiver, they may require a
5 per cent threshold for the revenue ratio test under the
combination of announcements, reporting and independent
HK Listing Rules, and
shareholders’ approval.
• it will continue to monitor revenue banking transactions
with Temasek during the three years ending 31 December
2027 to ensure that the 5 per cent threshold for the revenue
ratio will not be exceeded.
The Company therefore satisfied the conditions of the Waiver.
186 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 187
Directors’
report
Major shareholders date before publication of this Annual Report, the Company
As at 31 December 2024, Temasek Holdings (Private) Limited has been notified of the following information, in accordance
(Temasek) is the only shareholder that has an interest of with DTR 5, from holders of notifiable interests in the
more than 10 per cent in the Company’s issued ordinary Company’s issued share capital. The information provided
share capital carrying a right to vote at any general meeting. in the table below was correct at the date of notification;
Information provided to the Company pursuant to the however, the date received may not have been within 2024.
FCA’s Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules (DTRs) is It should be noted that these holdings are likely to have
published on a Regulatory Information Service and on the changed since the Company was notified. However,
Company’s website. As at 14 February, the latest practicable notification of any change is not required until the next
notifiable threshold is crossed.
Interest in ordinary shares Percentage of
Notifiable interests (based on voting rights disclosed) capital disclosed Nature of holding as per disclosure
Temasek Holdings (Private) Limited 447,461,831 17.00 Indirect
BlackRock Inc. 183,640,172 5.55 Indirect (5.01%)
Securities Lending (0.39%)
Contracts for Difference (0.14%)
Risk management and internal controls1 The work of GIA is focused on the areas of greatest risk as
determined by a risk-based assessment methodology.
Risk management The Board considers the internal control systems of the
The Board is responsible for maintaining and reviewing the Company to be effective and adequate.
effectiveness of the risk management system. An ongoing
GIA reports regularly to the Audit Committee, the Group
process for identifying, evaluating and managing the
Chairman and the Group Chief Executive; and the Group
significant risks that we face is in place. The Board is satisfied
Head, Internal Audit reports directly to the Chair of the Audit
that this process constitutes a robust assessment of all the
Committee and administratively to the Group Chief Executive.
principal risks, topical and emerging risks and integrated risks
The findings of all adverse audits are reported to the Audit
facing the Group, including those that would threaten its
Committee, the Group Chairman and the Group Chief
business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Executive where immediate corrective action is required.
Key areas of risk on financial instruments for the directors
The Board Risk Committee is responsible for exercising
included the impairment of loans and advances and
oversight, on behalf of the Board, of the key risks of the Group.
valuation of financial instruments held at fair value. This risk
It reviews the Group’s Risk Appetite Statement and EMRF and
assessment and management is explained further in the
makes recommendations to the Board. The Audit Committee
Audit Committee Key areas and Action taken on page 124.
is responsible for oversight and advice to the Board on
The Risk review and Capital review on pages 194 and 269 matters relating to financial, non-financial and narrative
sets out the principal risks, topical and emerging risks, reporting. The Committee’s role is to review, on behalf of
our approach to risk management, including our risk the Board, the Group’s internal controls including internal
management principles, an overview of our ERMF and financial controls. The Audit Committee receives and
the risk management and governance practices for each discusses a paper on the internal controls for financial books
principal risk type. The Board-approved Risk Appetite and records.
Statement can be found on pages 28 and 198.
The risk management approach starting on page 196
In accordance with Article 435(1)(e) of the Disclosure (CRR) describes the Group’s risk management oversight
Part of the PRA Rulebook, the Board Risk Committee, on committee structure.
behalf of the Board, has considered the adequacy of the risk
Our business is conducted within a developed control
management arrangements of the Group and has sought
framework, underpinned by policies and standards. These
and received assurance that the risk management systems
are designed to ensure the identification and management
in place are adequate with regard to the Group’s profile
of risk, including Credit Risk, Traded Risk, Treasury Risk,
and strategy.
Operational and Technology Risk, ICS Risk, Compliance Risk,
Internal controls Financial Crime Risk, ESG and reputational risk, as well as
Model Risk. This framework incorporates the Group’s internal
The Board is responsible for maintaining and reviewing the
controls on financial reporting. The Board has established
effectiveness of the internal control system. Its effectiveness
a management structure that clearly defines roles,
is reviewed regularly by the Board, its committees, the
responsibilities and reporting lines.
Management Team and GIA.
Delegated authorities are documented and communicated.
For the year ended 31 December 2024, the Board Risk
Executive risk committees regularly review the Group’s risk
Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s
profile. The performance of the Group’s businesses is reported
system of internal control and discussed a report on the 2024
regularly to senior management and the Board. Performance
annual risk and control self-assessment. GIA represents the
trends and forecasts, as well as actual performance against
third line of defence and provides independent assurance
budgets and prior periods, are monitored closely. Group
of the effectiveness of management’s control of business
financial information is prepared on the basis set out in
activities (the first line) and of the control processes
Note 1 to the financial statements within the Statement of
maintained by the Risk Framework Owners and Policy Owners
compliance and financial reporting is subject to the Group’s
(the second line). The audit programme includes obtaining
control framework for reconciliation processes.
an understanding of the processes and systems under audit
review, evaluating the design of controls, and testing the
operating effectiveness and outcomes of key controls.
1 The Group’s Risk Management Framework and System of Internal Control applies only to wholly controlled subsidiaries of the Group, and not to Associates, Joint
Ventures or Structured Entities of the Group
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 189
Directors’
report
There is a distinct Group Speaking Up Policy and Standard Health, safety and wellbeing
which covers instances where an employee wishes to ‘blow Our Health, Safety and Wellbeing (HSW) vision is to support
the whistle’ on actual, planned or potential wrongdoing by employee productivity through a healthy and resilient
another employee or the Group. workforce, and our mission is to deliver every day in a safe and
The Group is committed to creating a fair, consistent and secure resilient way. Our corporate HSW programme covers
transparent approach to making decisions in a disciplinary both mental and physical health and wellbeing. The Group
context. This commitment is codified in our Fair Accountability complies with both external regulatory requirements and
Principles, which underpin our Group Disciplinary Standard. internal policy and standards for HSW in all markets. It is
Dismissals due to misconduct issues and/or performance Group policy to ensure that the more stringent of the two
(where required by law to follow a disciplinary process) are requirements is always met, ensuring our HSW practices
governed by the Group Disciplinary Standard. Where local meet or exceed the regulatory minimum. Compliance
law or regulation requires a different process with regards to rates are reported at least twice a year to each country’s
dismissals and other disciplinary outcomes, we have clearly Management Team.
documented country variances in place. We follow the ILO code of practice on recording and
Our Group Diversity and Inclusion Standard has been notification of occupational accidents and diseases, as well
developed to ensure a diverse and inclusive workplace, with as aligning to UK Health and Safety Executive (HSE), and
fair and equal treatment, and the provision of opportunities ensuring we meet all local health and safety (H&S) regulatory
for employees to participate fully and reach their full potential reporting requirements. We record and report all work-related
in a respectful working environment. All individuals are illness and injuries, including for sub-contractors, visitors
entitled to be treated with dignity and respect, and to be free and clients.
from harassment, bullying, discrimination and victimisation. In 2024, we saw a reduction in serious work injuries with nil
This helps to support productive working conditions, work-related fatalities nor ill health to report. Major injuries
decreased staff attrition, positive employee morale and (per the UK HSE definition) decreased from 21 in 2023 to 14
engagement, maintains employee wellbeing and reduces in 2024, with fractures the most common type of major injury
people-related risk. (57 per cent). Overall, there was an increase of 6 per cent in
All colleagues are responsible for fostering an inclusive reported injuries in 2024. ‘Slips/trips/falls’ and ‘transport/
culture where individuality and differing skills, capabilities commuting’ accidents remain the most common causes
and experience are understood, respected and valued. of injury. Our injury rates remain aligned to, or better than
All colleagues, consultants, contractors, volunteers, interns, industry benchmarks. Hazards and near miss-reports
casual workers and agency workers are required to comply decreased 1 per cent between 2023 and 2024.
with the Standard, including conducting themselves in a HSW performance and risks are reported annually to the
manner that demonstrates appropriate, non-discriminatory Group Risk Committee and Board Risk Committee. We use an
behaviours. H&S management system and local regulatory compliance
We do not accept unlawful discrimination in our recruitment tracker across all countries to ensure a consistently high
or employment practices on any grounds including but not level of H&S reporting and compliance for all our colleagues
limited to: sex, race, colour, nationality, ethnicity, national or and clients.
indigenous origin, disability, age, marital or civil partner status, In 2024, we refreshed our Group HSW Standards with
pregnancy or maternity, sexual orientation, gender identity, enhanced focus on incident management through a clear
expression or reassignment, HIV or AIDS status, parental process for timely investigations, root cause analysis, and
status, military and veterans status, flexibility of working putting together corrective and preventive actions, and on
arrangements, religion or belief. We are committed to provide communicating lessons learned. We enhanced contractor
equal opportunities and fair treatment in recruitment, safety with guidelines for selecting, onboarding, and
appraisals, pay and conditions, training, development, managing contractors, and continuous monitoring and
succession planning, promotion, grievance/disciplinary evaluation of contractor performance to address the elevated
procedures and employment termination practices, that H&S risks faced by our contractors due to the nature of their
are inclusive and accessible, and that do not directly or work. In April 2024, we celebrated World Day for Safety
indirectly discriminate. Recruitment, employment, training, and Health at Work across the Group. Over 900 colleagues
development and promotion decisions are based on the skills, joined webinars on topics such as preventing burnout and
knowledge and behaviour required to perform the role to the supporting resilience. We also relaunched the Safety and
Group’s standards. Implied in all employment terms is the Security Learning Pathway in the Bank’s learning platform,
commitment to equal pay for equal work. We also endeavour reminding how each employee can help maintain a safe
to make reasonable workplace adjustments (including during working environment in the Group.
the hiring process by giving full and fair considerations to all
applications) to ensure all individuals feel supported and are The Group sponsors medical and healthcare services for all
able to participate fully and reach their potential. employees, except in markets where cover is provided through
state-mandated healthcare, which represent less than
We aim to be a disability-confident organisation with a 0.8 per cent of the Group’s employees.
focus on removing barriers and improving accessibility.
More details on how we support our colleagues’ wellbeing are on
If employees become disabled, we will aim to support them
pages 39 and 188 of this report.
with appropriate training and workplace adjustments
where possible and support their career development and
continued employment.
Directors’ report Other disclosures
Psychosocial risk is an area that an increasing number of Our purchases of goods and services are governed through
H&S regulators are legislating on. Psychosocial risks are those a third-party risk management framework through which
that cause physical or psychological harm, arising from the we aim to follow the highest standards in terms of selection
design or management of work, the work environment, of suppliers, due diligence and contract management.
workplace interactions or behaviours. In line with the Australia For information about how the Group engages with suppliers
Work Health and Safety (Managing Psychosocial Hazards on environmental and social matters, please see our Supplier
at Work) Code of Practice 2024, a pilot study was conducted Charter and Supplier Diversity and Inclusion Standard.
in Australia, assessing the psychosocial hazards and factors. Our Supplier Charter and Supplier Diversity and Inclusion standard can
In 2025 we aim to expand our H&S management systems to be viewed at sc.com/suppliercharter and sc.com/supplierdiversity
cover management of psychosocial risks.
Details of how we create value for our suppliers and other
stakeholder groups can be found on page 37
In 2024, we achieved the WELL Equity Rating for nine key
office buildings across the globe and achieved the WELL Gold
Certification for Capitol Tower Hanoi Vietnam. Developed by Political donations
the International WELL Building Institute (IWBI), the rating The Group has a policy in place which prohibits donations
and certification recognises the Group’s commitment to being made that would: (i) improperly influence legislation
creating people-first workplaces that promote health, or regulation, (ii) promote political views or ideologies, and
wellbeing, and equity, and is a significant milestone in our (iii) fund political causes. In alignment to this, no political
broader strategy towards enhancing social sustainability. donations were made in the year ended 31 December 2024.
Group Code of Conduct Research and development
The Board has adopted a Group Code of Conduct and During the year, the Group invested $2.13 billion (2023:
Ethics (the Code) relating to the lawful and ethical conduct $2.01 billion) in research and development, of which $1.18
of business and this is supported by the Group’s valued (2023: $0.99 billion) was recognised as an expense. The
behaviours. This has been communicated to all directors research and development investment primarily related to the
and employees, all of whom are expected to observe high planning, analysis, design, development, testing, integration,
standards of integrity and fair dealing in relation to customers, deployment and initial support of technology systems.
employees and regulators in the communities in which the
Group operates. Directors and employees are asked to Responsible AI
recommit to the Code annually, and 99.9 per cent have The Group has been actively embracing AI and digital
completed the 2024 recommitment. All Board members innovation to stay competitive in the Banking, Financial
have recommitted to the Code. Services and Insurance sector for a number of years. The
approved AI use cases in the Bank are deployed in various
Customers and products domains such as customer engagement, operational
Our five largest customers together accounted for 1.9 per cent efficiency, risk management, customer onboarding, employee
of our total operating income in the year ended 31 December engagement, management reporting and talent acquisition.
2024. Our Responsible AI governance has been established for a
number of years and is led by a dedicated team within the
We aim to design and offer products based on client needs to
Chief Data Office, who have been effectively managing the
ensure fair client treatment and to support fair outcomes for
centralised governance of all AI use cases. Our approach
clients. The Group has in place a risk framework, comprising
aligns with leading industry standards, specifically the MAS
policies, standards and controls to support these objectives in
FEAT and HKMA BDAI guidelines, which are benchmarks in
alignment with our Conduct Risk Management Approach.
the Banking regulator space. This alignment not only ensures
We ensure products sold are suitable for clients and comply
our adherence to high ethical and regulatory guidelines
with relevant laws and regulations. We also review our
but also positions us well for future industry developments.
products on a periodic basis and refine them to keep them
Our Audit Committee receives twice-yearly reports on Data
relevant to the changing needs of clients and to meet
Risk, which includes Responsible AI.
regulatory obligations.
We have processes and guidelines specific to each of our Auditor independence
client industries, to promptly resolve Client complaints and
understand and respond to client issues. For more information Non-audit services
on our approach to product design, product pricing, treating The Group’s Non-Audit Services Policy (the Policy) is based on
customers fairly and protecting clients, and incentivising our an overriding principle that, to avoid any actual or perceived
frontline employees, see pages 35 to 36. conflicts of interest, the Group’s auditors should only be used
when there is evidence that there is no alternative in terms
In 2024, the total number of client complaints in CIB was 1,585.
of quality and when there is no conflict with their duties as
In WRB, we received in total 201,901 client complaints (an
auditor. Each request for EY to provide non-audit services will
average of 1.78 per 1,000 active clients per month).
be assessed on its own merits. However, the following types of
non-audit services are likely to be permissible under the Policy:
Suppliers and our supply chain
In 2024, $4.7 billion was spent with 10,918 suppliers. Of this, • reviews of interim financial information and verification of
72.3 per cent of the total spend was in the Asia region, with interim profits – the Group would also extend this to work on
20.6 per cent in Europe and the Americas, and 7.1 per cent in investor circulars in most foreseeable circumstances
Africa and the Middle East. Furthermore, 80 per cent of total • extended audit or assurance work on financial information
spend in 2024 was with 389 suppliers. In 2024, our five largest and/or financial or operational controls, where this work is
suppliers together accounted for 14.47 per cent of total closely linked to the audit engagement
spend, with the largest ten amounting to 22.64 per cent
• agreed-upon procedures on materials within or referenced
of total spend.
in the Annual Report of the Group or an entity within the
Group, and
• internal control review services.
190 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Directors’ report Statement of directors’ responsibilities
Statement of directors’ responsibilities
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also
Report and the Group and Company financial statements responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, a Directors’
in accordance with applicable law and regulations. Report, a Directors’ Remuneration Report and a Corporate
Governance Statement that comply with that law and
Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and
those regulations.
Company financial statements for each financial year.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and
Under that law:
integrity of the corporate and financial information included
• the Group financial statements have been prepared in on the Company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing
accordance with UK-adopted International Accounting the preparation and dissemination of financial statements
Standards and International Financial Reporting Standards differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
as adopted by the European Union
• the Company financial statements have been properly Responsibility statement of the directors in
prepared in accordance with UK-adopted International respect of the annual financial report
Accounting Standards as applied in accordance with We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, and
• The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or
Under company law the directors must not approve the loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the
financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give consolidation taken as a whole, and
a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and • The Strategic report includes a fair review of the
Company and of their profit or loss for that period. development and performance of the business and the
In preparing each of the Group and Company financial position of the Company and the undertakings included
statements, the directors are required to: in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a
description of the emerging risks and uncertainties that
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
they face.
consistently
We consider the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a
• make judgements and estimates that are reasonable,
whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the
relevant and reliable
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s
• state whether they have been prepared in accordance position and performance, business model and strategy.
with UK-adopted International Accounting Standards and
By order of the Board.
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by
the European Union
• assess the Group and the Company’s ability to continue as
a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related
to going concern, and
• use the going concern basis of accounting unless they either
intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease Diego De Giorgi
operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so. Group Chief Financial Officer
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate 21 February 2025
accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain
the Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company
and enable them to ensure that its financial statements
comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are responsible
for such internal control as they determine is necessary to
enable the preparation of financial statements that are
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or
error, and have general responsibility for taking such steps
as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets
of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and
other irregularities.
192 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Risk review Risk management approach
Enterprise Risk Management Framework
Risk management is at the heart of banking, it is what we do. Managing risk effectively is how
we drive commerce and prosperity for our clients and our communities, and it is how we grow
sustainably and profitably as an organisation.
Effective risk management is essential in delivering consistent Roles and responsibilities
and sustainable performance for all our stakeholders and is
a central part of the financial and operational management Senior Managers Regime2
of the Group. The Group adds value to clients and the Roles and responsibilities under the ERMF are aligned to
communities in which they operate by balancing risk and the objectives of the Senior Managers Regime. The Group
reward to generate returns for shareholders. Chief Risk Officer (GCRO) is responsible for the overall
development and maintenance of the Group’s ERMF and for
The Enterprise Risk Management Framework (ERMF)
identifying material risks which the Group may be exposed to.
enables the Group to manage enterprise-wide risks, with the
The GCRO delegates effective implementation of the Risk
objective of maximising risk-adjusted returns while remaining
Type Frameworks (RTF) to Risk Framework Owners (RFO),
within our Risk Appetite (RA). The ERMF is complemented by
who provide second line of defence oversight for their
frameworks, policies and standards which are mainly aligned
respective PRTs.
to the Principal Risk Types (PRTs), and is embedded across the
Group, including its branches and subsidiaries.1 It is reviewed
The Risk function
and approved by the Board annually, with the latest version
being effective from August 2024. The Risk function provides oversight and challenge on the
Group’s risk management, ensuring that business is conducted
Risk culture in line with regulatory expectations. The GCRO directly
manages the Risk function, which is independent from the
Risk culture encompasses our general awareness, attitudes,
origination, trading, and sales functions of the businesses.
and behaviours towards risk, as well as how risk is managed
The Risk function is responsible for:
at enterprise level.
• proposing the RA for approval by the Board
A healthy risk culture is one in which everyone takes personal
responsibility to identify and assess, openly discuss, and • maintaining the ERMF, ensuring that it remains relevant
take prompt action to address existing and emerging risks. and appropriate to the Group’s business activities, and
We expect our control functions to provide oversight and is effectively communicated and implemented across
challenge constructively, collaboratively, and in a timely the Group
manner on the risks owned by the first line of defence. • ensuring that risks are properly assessed, risk and return
This effort is reflected in our valued behaviours and decisions are transparent and risks are controlled in
underpinned by our Code of Conduct and Ethics. accordance with the Group’s standards and RA
Further details on our Code of Conduct and Ethics can be
• overseeing and challenging the management of PRTs under
found on page 95.
the ERMF
The risks we face constantly evolve, and we must always
• independence of the Risk function by ensuring that the
look for ways to manage them as effectively as possible.
necessary balance in making risk and return decisions is not
While unfavourable outcomes will occur from time to time,
compromised by short-term pressures to generate revenues.
a healthy risk culture means that we react quickly and
transparently. We can then take the opportunity to learn from The Risk function supports the Group’s strategy by building
our experience and improve our framework and processes. a sustainable ERMF that places regulatory and compliance
standards, together with culture of appropriate conduct, at
Strategic risk management the forefront of the Group’s agenda.
The Group’s approach to strategic risk management includes Our Compliance, Financial Crime and Conduct Risk (CFCR)
the following: function,3 works alongside the Risk function within the ERMF
• Risk identification: impact analyses of risks that arise from to deliver a unified second line of defence. Compliance Risk
the Group’s growth plans, strategic initiatives, and business and Financial Crime Risk, as PRTs, fall under the scope of the
model vulnerabilities are reviewed. This assesses how CFCR’s responsibilities.
existing risks have evolved in terms of relative importance
Three lines of defence model
and whether new risks have emerged.
The Group applies a three lines of defence model to its
• Risk Appetite: impact analysis is performed to assess if
day-to-day activities for effective risk management,
strategic initiatives can be achieved within RA and highlight
and to reinforce a strong governance and control
areas where additional RA should be considered.
environment. Typically:
• Stress testing: identified risks are used to develop scenarios
• Businesses and functions engaged in or supporting revenue
for enterprise stress tests.
generating activities that own and manage risks constitute
the first line of defence.
1 The Group’s ERMF and system of internal control applies only to wholly controlled subsidiaries of the Group, and not to associates, joint ventures or structured
entities of the Group.
2 Senior managers refer to individuals designated as senior management functions under the FCA and PRA Senior Managers Regime.
3 From 1 January 2025, our Conduct, Financial Crime and Compliance (CFCC) function was renamed as Compliance, Financial Crime and Conduct Risk (CFCR).
196 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 197
Risk
review
and
Capital
review
• Control functions, independent of the first line of defence, • RA is defined by the Group and approved by the Board.
that provide oversight and challenge of risk management It is the boundary for the risk that the Group is willing to
activities act as the second line of defence. undertake to achieve its strategic objectives and corporate
plan. We set RA to enable us to grow sustainably while
• Internal Audit acts as the third line of defence, providing
managing our risks, giving confidence to our stakeholders.
independent assurance on the effectiveness of controls
The Group RA is supplemented by risk control tools such as
supporting the activities of the first and second lines
granular level limits, policies, and standards to maintain the
of defence.
Group’s risk profile within approved RA.
Each PRT has an RTF which outlines the areas of governance
The Board is responsible for approving the RA Statements,
and risk management and is the formal mechanism through
which are underpinned by a set of financial and operational
which authorities are delegated. Risk management plans,
control parameters known as RA metrics and their associated
processes, activities, and resource allocations are consistent
thresholds. These set boundaries for the aggregate risk
with the three lines of defence model prescribed by the ERMF.
exposures that can be taken across the Group.
Risk identification and assessment The Group RA is reviewed bi-annually to ensure that it is fit for
Identification and assessment of potentially adverse risk purpose and aligned with strategy, with focus given to new or
events is an essential first step in managing the risks of any emerging risks.
business or activity. To ensure consistency we use PRTs to
classify our risk exposures. However, we also recognise the Risk Appetite Statement
need to maintain a holistic perspective since: The Group’s objective is to not compromise adherence with its
RA in order to pursue revenue growth or higher returns.
• a single transaction or activity may give rise to multiple
types of risk exposure See the table on page 198 for the set of RA Statements.
• risk concentrations may arise from multiple exposures that
Stress testing
are closely correlated
The objective of stress testing is to support the Group in
• a given risk exposure may change its form from one risk
assessing that it:
type to another.
• does not have exposure to excessive risk concentrations
There are also sources of risk that arise beyond our own
that could produce unacceptably high losses under severe
operations, such as the Group’s dependency on suppliers for
but plausible scenarios
the provision of services and technology.
• has sufficient financial resources to withstand severe but
As the Group remains accountable for risks arising from the
plausible scenarios
actions of such third parties, failure to adequately monitor
and manage these relationships could materially impact the • has the financial flexibility to respond to extreme but
Group’s ability to operate. plausible scenarios
The Group maintains a taxonomy of risks inherent to the • understands key business model risks and considers what
strategy and business model, as well as a risk inventory which kind of event might crystallise those risks – even if extreme
captures identified risks, including the Topical and Emerging and with a low likelihood of occurring
Risks (TERs) to which the Group is or might be exposed to. • identifies, as required, actions to mitigate the likelihood or
Multiple identification and assessment techniques are impact of those events
used to ensure breadth and depth of understanding of the
internal and external risk environment, as well as potential • has set RA metrics at appropriate levels.
opportunities. A risk assessment of the corporate plan is Enterprise stress tests incorporate capital and liquidity
undertaken annually, supplemented by risk assessments of adequacy stress tests, including recovery and resolution,
new initiatives. Risk identification findings inform the related as well as reverse stress tests.
risk oversight process, and most importantly RA and controls
Stress tests are performed at the Group, country, business,
setting, scenario selection and design, and model refinement
and portfolio level under a wide range of risks and at varying
and development.
degrees of severity. Unless specifically set by the regulator,
The GCRO and the Group Risk Committee (GRC) regularly scenario design is a bespoke process that aims to explore risks
review reports on the risk profile for the PRTs, adherence to that can adversely impact the Group.
Group RA, stress test results and the Group risk inventory
The Board delegates approval of the Bank of England (BoE)
including TERs.
stress test submissions to the Board Risk Committee (BRC),
which reviews the recommendations from the GRC. Based on
Risk Appetite and profile
the stress test results, the Group Chief Financial Officer (GCFO)
The Group recognises the following constraints which and GCRO can recommend strategic actions to the Board to
determine the risks that we are willing to take in pursuit of our ensure that the Group’s strategy remains within RA.
strategy and the development of a sustainable business:
In addition, analysis is run at the PRT level to assess specific
• Risk capacity is the maximum level of risk the Group can risks and concentrations that the Group may be exposed to.
assume, given its current capabilities and resources, before These include qualitative assessments such as stressing of
breaching constraints determined by capital and liquidity credit sectors or portfolios, and quantitative assessments
requirements or the internal operational environment, or such as potential losses from severe but plausible market risk
otherwise failing to meet the expectations of regulator and scenarios or internal stressed liquidity metrics.
law enforcement agencies.
Risk review Risk management approach
Stress testing plays a critical role in assessing the potential impact on portfolio values of extreme but plausible scenarios,
leading to potential losses typically much larger than those predicted by the Value at Risk (VaR) model. The Group uses
historical and forward-looking scenarios. A common set of scenarios is used across all legal entities complemented in some
cases with entity-specific scenarios. RA for market risk stress losses is set at the Group as well as legal entity level.
Non-financial risk types are also stressed to assess the necessary capital requirements under the Operational and
Technology RTF.
The Group has also undertaken a number of Climate Risk stress tests, both those mandated by regulators as well as
management scenarios.
Principal Risk Types
PRTs are those risks that are inherent in our strategy and business model and have been formally defined in the Group’s ERMF.
These risks are managed through distinct RTFs which are approved by the GCRO.
The PRTs and associated RA Statements are reviewed annually. The table below shows the Group’s current PRTs, their definition
and RA Statement.
Principal Risk Types Definition Risk Appetite Statement
Credit Risk Potential for loss due to failure of a counterparty to The Group manages its credit exposures following
meet its agreed obligations to pay the Group. the principle of diversification across products,
geographies, client segments and industry sectors.
Traded Risk Potential for loss resulting from activities undertaken The Group should control its financial markets
by the Group in financial markets. activities to ensure that market and counterparty
credit risk losses do not cause material damage to
the Group’s franchise.
Treasury Risk Potential for insufficient capital, liquidity, or funding The Group should maintain sufficient capital, liquidity
to support our operations, the risk of reductions in and funding to support its operations, and an interest
earnings or value from movements in interest rates rate profile ensuring that the reductions in earnings
impacting banking book items and the potential for or value from movements in interest rates impacting
losses from a shortfall in the Group’s pension plans. banking book items does not cause material damage
to the Group’s franchise. In addition, the Group should
ensure its pension plans are adequately funded.
Operational and Potential for loss resulting from inadequate or failed The Group aims to control operational and
Technology Risk internal processes, technology events, human error, technology risks to ensure that operational losses
or from the impact of external events (including (financial or reputational), including any related to the
legal risks). conduct of business matters, do not cause material
damage to the Group’s franchise.
Information and Cyber Risk to the Group’s assets, operations, and The Group aims to mitigate and control ICS risks
Security (ICS) Risk individuals due to the potential for unauthorised to ensure that incidents do not cause the Bank
access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, material harm, business disruption, financial loss
or destruction of information assets and/or or reputational damage – recognising that while
information systems. incidents are unwanted, they cannot be entirely
avoided.
Financial Crime Risk4 Potential for legal or regulatory penalties, material The Group has no appetite for breaches of laws and
financial loss or reputational damage resulting regulations related to Financial Crime, recognising
from the failure to comply with applicable laws that while incidents are unwanted, they cannot be
and regulations relating to international sanctions, entirely avoided.
anti-money laundering and anti-bribery and
corruption, and fraud.
Compliance Risk Potential for penalties or loss to the Group or for The Group has no appetite for breaches of laws and
an adverse impact to our clients, stakeholders regulations related to regulatory non-compliance;
or to the integrity of the markets we operate in recognising that while incidents are unwanted, they
through a failure on our part to comply with laws, cannot be entirely avoided.
or regulations.
Environmental, Social Potential or actual adverse impact on the The Group aims to measure and manage financial
and Governance environment and/or society, the Group’s financial and non-financial risks arising from climate change,
and Reputational performance, operations, or the Group’s name, reduce emissions in line with our net zero strategy
(ESGR) Risk brand or standing, arising from environmental, and protect the Group from material reputational
social or governance factors, or as a result of the damage by upholding responsible conduct and
Group’s actual or perceived actions or inactions. striving to do no significant environmental and
social harm.
Model Risk Potential loss that may occur because of decisions The Group has no appetite for material adverse
or the risk of misestimation that could be principally implications arising from misuse of models or errors
based on the output of models, due to errors in in the development or implementation of models;
the development, implementation, or use of while accepting some model uncertainty.
such models.
4 Fraud forms part of the Financial Crime RA Statement but, in line with market practice, does not apply a zero-tolerance approach.
As of November 2024, the Climate Risk RA Statement was integrated into the ESGR PRT.
198 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 199
Risk
review
and
Capital
review
ERMF effectiveness reviews Ongoing effectiveness reviews allow for a structured
The GCRO is responsible for annually affirming the approach to identify improvement opportunities and build
effectiveness of the ERMF to the BRC via an effectiveness plans to address them.
review. This review is based on the principle of evidence- In 2025, the Group aims to further strengthen its risk
based self-assessments for all the RTFs and relevant policies. management practices by improving the management of
A top-down review and challenge of the results is conducted non-financial risks within its businesses, functions and across
by the GCRO with all RFOs and an opinion on the internal our footprint. As the regulatory environment continuously
control environment is provided by Internal Audit. changes, the Group constantly monitors regulatory
The ERMF effectiveness review measures year-on-year developments and take proactive actions for compliance.
progress. The key outcomes of the 2024 review are:
Executive and Board risk oversight
• Continued focus on embedding the ERMF across the
organisation. Overview
• Financial risks continue to be effectively managed, and the The corporate governance and committee structure helps
Group is making good progress in embedding non-financial the Group to conduct our business. The Board has ultimate
risk management. responsibility for risk management and approves the ERMF
based on the recommendation of the BRC, which also
• Self-assessments performed in branches and banking recommends the Group RA Statement for all PRTs and other
subsidiaries reflect the embeddedness of the ERMF. risks. In addition to the BRC and Audit Committee, the Culture
Country and cluster risk committees continue to play an and Sustainability Committee oversees the Group’s culture
active role in overseeing and managing risks across our and key sustainability priorities.
footprint markets.
See page 113 for the Board and committee governance structure.
Group Risk Committee
The GRC, which derives its authority from the GCRO, is responsible for ensuring the effective management of risk throughout
the Group in support of the Group’s strategy. The GCRO chairs the GRC, whose members are drawn from the Group
Management Team. The GRC oversees the effective implementation of the ERMF for the Group, including the delegation
of any part of its authorities to appropriate individuals or sub-committees.
Group Risk Committee
sub-committees Chair Roles and responsibilities
Group Non-Financial Risk Global Head, Operational, Governs the in-scope non-financial risks throughout the Group in support
Committee (GNFRC) Technology and Cyber Risk of the ERMF and the Group’s strategy.
Group Financial Crime Risk Group Head, CFCR Ensures that the Financial Crime Risk profile (excluding Fraud Risk and
Committee (GFCRC) Secondary Reputational Risk arising from Financial Crime Risk) is
managed within RA and policies.
Group Responsibility and GCRO Ensures the effective management of Reputational and Sustainability
Reputational Risk Committee Risk across the Group. This includes providing oversight of matters arising
(GRRRC) from clients, products, transactions and strategic coverage-related
decisions and matters escalated by the respective RFOs.
International Financial Co-chaired by the Global Ensures the effective management of expected credit loss (ECL)
Reporting Standards (IFRS) 9 Head Enterprise Risk computations, as well as stage allocation of financial assets for quarterly
Impairment Committee (IIC) Management (ERM) and financial reporting.
Group Head, Central Finance
Model Risk Committee Global Head, ERM To support the Group strategy by ensuring the effective measurement
(MRC) and management of Model Risk in line with internal policies and
model RA.
Investment Committee Global Head of Stressed Ensures the optimised wind-down of the Group’s non-core direct
Assets Risk investment activities in equities, quasi-equities (excluding mezzanine),
funds and other alternative investments (excluding debt/debt-like
instruments).
SC Ventures (SCV) Risk CRO, SCV who receives Oversees the effective management of risk throughout SCV and the
Committee authority directly from the portfolio of controlled entities operating under SCV.
GCRO
Climate Risk Management Global Head, ERM Oversees the effective implementation of the Group’s Climate Risk
Committee (CRMC) workplan, including relevant regulatory requirements. This includes
embedding Climate Risk and net zero oversight across Group businesses,
as part of the Group’s commitment to manage Climate Risk related
financial and non-financial risks.
Regulatory Interpretation Co-chaired by the Global Provides oversight of material regulatory interpretations for the Capital
Committee (RIC) Head ERM and Group Head, Requirements Regulation (as amended by UK legislation), the Prudential
Central Finance Regulatory Authority (PRA) rulebook and other relevant regulations
impacting Group regulatory capital calculations and reporting. The
areas and risk types in scope are credit risk, traded risk, operational risk,
large exposures, leverage ratio and securitisation.
Risk review Risk management approach
Group Risk Committee
sub-committees Chair Roles and responsibilities
Digital Assets Risk CRO, SC Ventures & Global Oversees effective risk management of the Digital Assets (DA) Risk
Committee (DRC) Head, Digital Asset Risk profile of the Group. This includes providing oversight and subject matter
expertise of DA Risk matters across the PRTs.
Corporate & Investment Co-Heads CRO CIB and CRO, Ensures the effective management of financial risk throughout CIB in
Banking Financial Risk ASEAN & South Asia support of the Group’s strategy.
Committee (CIBFRC)
Wealth & Retail Banking Chief Risk Officer, WRB & Ensures the effective management of risk throughout WRB in support
Risk Committee (WRBRC) GCNA of the Group’s strategy.
HK & GCNA Risk Committee CRO, Hong Kong & GCNA These committees ensure the effective management of risk in the
(HK&GCNA RC) clusters in support of the Group’s strategy.
SG & ASEAN Risk Committee CRO, Singapore & ASEAN
(SG&ASEAN RC)
Standard Chartered Bank CRO, India & South Asia
(SCB) India Country Risk
Committee (CRC & CNFRC)
UK & Europe Risk Committee CRO & Chief Credit Officer,
(UK & ERC) Europe
Americas Risk Committee CRO, Americas
(ARC)
Middle East and Pakistan CRO & Regional CCO AME
Risk Committee (MEPRC)
Africa Risk Committee CRO & Regional CCO AME
Group Asset and Liability Committee
The Group Asset and Liability Committee (GALCO) is chaired
by the GCFO. Its members are drawn principally from the
Management Team. GALCO is responsible for determining
the Group’s balance sheet strategy and ensuring that, in
executing the Group’s strategy, the Group operates within
RA and regulatory requirements relating to capital, loss-
absorbing capacity, liquidity, leverage, Interest Rate Risk in the
Banking Book (IRRBB), Banking Book Basis Risk and Structural
Foreign Exchange Risk. It also monitors the structural impact
of decisions around sustainable finance, net zero and climate
risk. GALCO is also responsible for ensuring that internal and
external recovery planning requirements are met.
200 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 205
Risk
review
and
Capital
review
Financial Crime Risk Compliance Risk
Roles and responsibilities Roles and responsibilities
The Group Head, CFCR is the Group’s Compliance and All activities that the Group engages in must comply with the
Money-Laundering Reporting Officer and performs the relevant country/local specific and extraterritorial regulations.
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) controlled function
Compliance Risk includes the risks associated with a failure
and senior management function in accordance with
to comply with all regulations that are applicable to the
requirements set out by the FCA, including those set out
Group regardless of the issuing regulatory authority. Where
in their handbook on systems and controls.
Compliance Risk arises, or could arise, from failure to manage
another PRT, the oversight and management processes for
Mitigation
that specific PRT must be followed, to ensure that effective
The CFCR function is responsible for the establishment and oversight and challenge of the first line of defence can be
maintenance of policies, standards, and oversight of first line provided by the appropriate second line of defence function.
of defence controls to ensure continued compliance with
Areas of regulation can be broadly divided into two distinct
financial crime laws and regulations, and the mitigation
categories: those issued by financial service regulatory
of Financial Crime Risk. In this, the requirements of the
authorities and those issued by non-financial service
Operational and Technology RTF are followed to ensure
regulators. The Group is exposed to both categories of
a consistent approach to the management of processes
regulation, and roles and responsibilities differ depending
and controls.
on the category. For regulations issued by financial services
Financial Crime Risk management is built on a risk-based regulatory authorities and other regulators that may issue
approach, meaning the risk management plans, processes, regulations pertaining to Compliance Risk, CFCR identifies
activities, and resource allocations are determined according new and amended regulations as and when issued and
to the level of risk. communicates the relevant regulatory obligations to the
Risk mitigation takes place through the process of country RFO delegate. The areas where CFCR does not act
identification of new and amended regulations and the in a second line of defence capacity are specified in the
implementation of necessary process and control changes respective RTF with appropriate ownership.
to address these. Each of the assigned second line of defence functions have
responsibilities, including monitoring relevant regulatory
Monitoring developments from non-financial services regulators at
The Group monitors enterprise-wide financial crime risks both Group and country levels, policy development,
through the Financial Crime Risk Assessment. This is implementation, and validation as well as oversight and
undertaken annually to assess the inherent financial crime challenge of first line of defence processes and controls.
risk exposures and the associated processes and controls by
which these exposures are mitigated. Mitigation
Financial Crime Risk controls are governed in line with the The CFCR function is responsible for the establishment and
Operational and Technology RTF. The Group has a monitoring maintenance of policies, standards, and oversight of the first
and reporting process in place for Financial Crime Risk, which line of defence controls to ensure compliance with laws and
includes escalation and reporting to the CFCR and relevant regulations, and the mitigation of Compliance Risk. In this,
risk committees. the requirements of the Operational and Technology RTF are
followed to ensure a consistent approach to the management
While not a formal governance committee, the CFCR of processes and controls.
Oversight Group provides oversight of CFCR risks including
the effective implementation of the Financial Crime RTF. Monitoring
It also provides oversight, challenge and direction to CFCR
The monitoring of controls designed to mitigate the risk of
policy owners on material changes and positions taken in
regulatory non-compliance in processes is governed in line
CFCR-owned policies, including issues relating to regulatory
with the Operational and Technology RTF. Compliance Risk interpretation and Group’s CFCR RA. The Regulatory
reporting includes escalation and reporting to the CFCR and
Change Oversight Forum provides visibility and oversight
relevant risk committees.
of material and/or complex large-scale regulatory change
emanating from financial services regulators impacting While not a formal governance committee, the CFCR
non-financial risks. Oversight Group provides oversight of CFCR, risks including
Further details on how we manage financial crime can be the effective implementation of the Compliance RTF, and
found on page 96. oversight, challenge and direction to CFCR policy owners on
material changes and positions taken in CFCR-owned policies,
including issues relating to regulatory interpretation and the
Group’s CFCR RA. The Regulatory Change Oversight Forum
provides visibility and oversight of material and/or complex
large-scale regulatory change emanating from financial
services regulators impacting non-financial risks.
Risk review Risk management approach
Environmental, Social
Model Risk
and Governance and
Reputational (ESGR)
Mitigation
The Model Risk Policy and Standards define requirements
Risk
for model development, validation, implementation and use,
including regular model performance monitoring and, where
required, model risk mitigants.
Mitigation
Model deficiencies identified through the development or
The ESGR RTF provides the overall risk management validation process, or model performance issues identified
approach for Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) through ongoing monitoring, are mitigated through
and Reputational risks. respective model risk mitigants. Mitigants include model
overlays as either post-model adjustments (PMAs) or
The ESG Risk policy outlines the Group’s commitment to
management adjustments, model restrictions and potentially
integrating ESG considerations into its business, operations,
a model recalibration or redevelopment, all of which undergo
and decision-making process. The policy sets out the
independent review, challenge, and approval. PMAs are used
requirements for identifying, assessing, and managing
to address observed deficiencies caused from within the
ESG risks, including Climate Risk.
model, by adjusting the model output either directly or
The Reputational Risk policy sets out the principal sources indirectly (e.g. adjusting parameters). Where a PMA is applied
of reputational risk driven by negative shifts in stakeholder as a mitigant for a model used in Pillar 1 or Pillar 2 calculations
perceptions, as well as the responsibilities for managing or models with material impact on financial accounting
Reputational Risk arising out of client onboarding and due disclosures (e.g. IFRS 9), the independent review must be
diligence, from transactions, product design and product performed by Group Model Validation (GMV) with sign-off
features, or strategic coverages such as exposure to sensitive from the Model Approver prior to implementation.
industries, markets, or investments. Whenever potential Management adjustments are used to address issues by
for stakeholder concerns is identified, issues are subject to applying management decisions without adjusting a direct
review and decision by both the first and second lines of modelling component.
defence. The Reputational Risk policy also sets out the key
As with all PRTs, operational controls are used to govern all
considerations for mitigating greenwashing risk that can
Model Risk-related processes, with regular risk assessments
arise during product and/or deal lifecycle, sustainability
performed to assess appropriateness and effectiveness of
reporting and disclosures, and external campaigns related
those controls, in line with the Operational and Technology
to sustainability themes.
RTF, with remediation plans implemented where necessary.
Group Model Risk Policy and Standards also define
Monitoring
requirements for deterministic quantitative methods
Exposure to reputational risks arising from transactions,
(DQMs) that are used as part of an end-to-end modelled
clients, products and strategic coverage is monitored
process. DQMs are similar in nature to a model, however the
through established triggers to prompt the appropriate
processing component is either purely deterministic or has an
risk-based considerations and assessment by the first line
element of expert judgement. Unlike a model, there is no use
of defence and escalations to the second line of defence.
of statistical, economic financial or mathematical theories.
Risk acceptance decisions and thematic trends are also
reviewed on a periodic basis. The regulatory framework around Model Risk is continuously
evolving, the PRA’s Supervisory Statement 1/23 (SS1/23) is
Exposure to ESG Risks is monitored through triggers
an example. The Group proactively monitors regulatory
embedded within the first line of defence processes. The
changes to take the required actions timely for compliance.
environmental and social risks are considered for clients and
Regarding SS1/23, the Group is currently delivering to a
transactions via Environmental and Social Risk Assessments
roadmap to compliance, which commenced in 2024 and
and/or Climate Risk Assessments (CRAs). Vendors that are
will continue over the next two years.
presenting as high risk are assessed for modern slavery risk.
Based on responses provided by the supplier at onboarding,
Monitoring
those that meet the high-risk category-country combinations
The Group monitors Model Risk via a set of RA metrics.
are subjected to further risk assessment.
Adherence to Model RA and any threshold breaches are
Exposure to Climate Risk is monitored in conjunction with reported to the BRC, GRC and MRC. These metrics and
other PRTs. We have embedded qualitative and quantitative thresholds are reviewed twice per year to ensure that
climate considerations into the Group’s Credit Underwriting threshold calibration remains appropriate, and the themes
Principles for Oil and Gas, Mining, Shipping, Commercial Real adequately cover the current risks.
Estate and Project Finance portfolio. We have expanded
Models undergo regular performance monitoring based on
coverage of Climate and Credit Risk considerations to physical
their level of perceived Model Risk, with monitoring results
collateral, as they serve as key risk mitigants, especially in
presented, and breaches escalated to the Model Sponsor,
default events. We assess physical risk concentrations for our
Model Owner, GMV and respective MRC or Individual
WRB portfolio on a quarterly basis and assess the physical
Delegated Model Approvers.
risk vulnerabilities of our sites periodically and when new sites
are onboarded. Model Risk management produces Model Risk reports
covering the model landscape, which include performance
Our Net Zero Climate Risk Working Forum meets quarterly
metrics, identified model issues and remediation plans.
to discuss account plans for high climate risk and net zero
These are presented for discussion at the Model Risk
divergent clients. Stress testing and scenario analysis are
governance committees on a regular basis.
used to assess the impact of ESGR-related risks. The impact
on capital requirements has been included in the PLC Group
Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process. Management
information is reviewed at a quarterly frequency and any
breaches in RA are reported to the GRC and BRC.
206 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Risk review Risk profile
Loans and advances to customers in the CIB segment Credit impairment charges
increased by $7.6 billion, mainly due to the execution of The Group’s ongoing credit impairment was a net charge of
pipeline deals in Global Banking, but this was offset by a $547 million (31 December 2023: $508 million).
$7.4 billion decrease in Central and other items. Derivative
WRB contributed a net charge of $644 million (31 December
financial instruments increased by $31 billion to $81 billion
2023: $354 million), driven by a higher interest rate
(31 December 2023: $50 billion). Off-balance sheet instruments
environment impacting repayments on credit cards and
increased by $16 billion to $273 billion (31 December 2023:
personal loans and to a few non-repeating ECL releases
$257 billion), due to an increase in financial guarantees and
recorded in 2023. The increase in impairments was also due
other equivalents, which was driven by new business.
to the maturity and portfolio growth of digital partnerships
Further details can be found in the ‘Maximum exposure to Credit Risk’ in China and Indonesia, as well as a $21 million overlay
section on page 209; ‘Credit quality by client segment’ section on
arising from the settlement failure of two e-commerce
page 212.
platforms in Korea.
Loans and advances CIB contributed a net release of $106 million (31 December
94 per cent (31 December 2023: 94 per cent) of the Group’s 2023: $123 million charge) due to a number of stage 3 releases
gross loans and advances to customers remain in stage 1 at and repayments.
$269 billion (31 December 2023: $274 billion), reflecting our
Further details can be found in the ‘Financial review‘ section on page 51;
continued focus on high-quality origination. For WRB, stage 1 ‘Credit impairment charge’ section on page 226.
balances decreased by $6.5 billion to $117 billion (31 December
2023: $123 billion), of which $5.9 billion was mainly due to a Commercial Real Estate (CRE)
reduction in the mortgage portfolios in Korea, Singapore and The Group provides loans to CRE counterparties of which
Hong Kong, mainly driven by slower booking momentum and $8.8 billion is to counterparties in the CIB segment where the
higher attrition as a result of intense interest rate competition. source of repayment is substantially derived from rental or
For CIB, stage 1 balances increased by $8 billion to $129 billion sale of real estate and is secured by real estate collateral.
(31 December 2023: $121 billion) mainly driven by the Energy, The remaining CRE loans comprise working capital loans to
Financing, Insurance and Transport sectors. For Central and real estate corporates, loans with non-property collateral,
other items, stage 1 balances decreased by 6.3 billion to unsecured loans and loans to real estate entities of diversified
$22 billion (31 December 2023: $28 billion) due to a reduction conglomerates. The average LTV ratio of the performing book
in exposures to the Government sector, across a number of CRE portfolio has increased to 54 per cent (31 December 2023:
our markets. 52 per cent). The proportion of loans with an LTV greater than
Stage 2 loans and advances to customers decreased by 80 per cent has increased to 4 per cent (31 December 2023:
$0.6 billion to $11 billion (31 December 2023: $11 billion). For 3 per cent).
WRB, stage 2 balances decreased by $0.4 billion to $1.9 billion
China CRE
(31 December 2023: $2.3 billion), due to decrease in the
mortgage portfolio. For Central and other items, higher risk Total exposure to China CRE decreased by $0.6 billion to
exposures decreased by $0.9 billion to $0.1 billion (31 December $2 billion (31 December 2023: $2.6 billion) mainly from exposure
2023: $1 billion), was due to the maturity of short-term loan reductions. The proportion of credit impaired exposures
exposures that were replaced with debt securities in Pakistan. increased to 70 per cent (31 December 2023: 58 per cent)
due to repayments within the non-credit impaired portfolio.
Stage 3 loans and advances decreased by $1 billion to The overall provision coverage increased to 87 per cent
$6.2 billion (31 December 2023: $7.2 billion) due to debt sales, (31 December 2023: 72 per cent), reflecting increased provision
repayments, write-offs and upgrades to Stage 2 loans in CIB. charges during the year. The proportion of the loan book
WRB stage 3 balances remained broadly stable at $1.6 billion rated as Higher Risk increased to 3 per cent (31 December
(31 December 2023: $1.5 billion). For Central and other items, 2023: 0.3 per cent) primarily due to downgrades during
stage 3 balances decreased by $0.1 billion to $0.1 billion the year.
(31 December 2023: $0.2 billion).
The Group continues to hold a judgemental management
Further details can be found in the ‘Analysis of financial instruments by
overlay, which decreased by $71 million to $70 million
stage’ section on page 210; ‘Credit quality by client segment’ section
on page 212; ‘Credit quality by industry’ section on page 230. (31 December 2023: $141 million), reflecting repayments
and utilisations during the year.
The Group is further indirectly exposed to China CRE through
Analysis of Stage 2
its associate investment in China Bohai Bank.
The key SICR driver which caused exposures to be classified
Further details can be found in the ‘China commercial real estate’ section
as stage 2 remains an increase in probability of default (PD).
on page 234; ‘Judgemental adjustments’ section on page 241.
The proportion of CIB exposures in stage 2 decreased due to
a reduction in clients placed on non-purely precautionary High carbon sectors
early alert that have not breached PD thresholds. In WRB, the
With the Group’s expansion in the asset-backed lending
exposures in stage 2 loans with more than 30 days past due
business, the total on-and-off balance sheet exposure for
remained stable at $0.3 billion (31 December 2023: $0.3 billion).
the Aviation sector increased to $2.6 billion (31 December
In Central and other items, the $0.5 billion decrease in CG12
2023: $1.9 billion), while the Shipping sector decreased to
balances to $1.5 billion (31 December 2023: $2 billion) was
$4.6 billion (31 December 2023: $5 billion). The Group’s position
due to the maturity of short-term loan exposures that were
statements mandates that for newer vessels and aircraft,
replaced with debt securities in Pakistan. ‘Others’ category
only carbon efficient ones can be financed.
includes exposures where origination data is incomplete and
the exposures are allocated into stage 2. While exposures to the Oil and Gas sector increased to
$21 billion (31 December 2023: $20 billion) due to increased
Further details can be found in the ‘Credit quality by client segment’
section in page 212; ‘Analysis of stage 2 balances’ section on page 225. funding towards more emissions-efficient counterparties,
exposures to the Power sector increased to $11 billion
(31 December 2023: $9 billion) due to increased lending to
renewables and efficient gas generation counterparties.
Further details on net zero targets and progress in managing transition
risk of the high carbon sectors can be found in the ‘Sustainability review’
section on page 57; ‘High carbon sectors’ section on page 232.
208 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Risk review Risk profile
Judgemental PMAs In WRB, overlays of $27 million includes $21 million in Korea
As at 31 December 2024, judgemental PMAs to increase ECL to cover the risks relating to the failure of two e-commerce
by a net $5 million (31 December 2023: $2 million increase) payment platforms in 2024, increased bankruptcy trends
have been applied. $28 million (31 December 2023: nil) of in certain markets and an immaterial adjustment for
the increase in ECL related to multiple economic scenarios, climate risks.
$13 million in CIB and $15 million in WRB (see ‘Impact of Further details on the adjustment for Climate Risk are set out
multiple economic scenarios’ section). This was partly offset in Note 1 of the ‘Notes to the financial statements’ section.
by a reduction of ECL of $23 million for certain WRB models,
primarily to adjust for temporary factors impacting modelled Overlays held at 31 December 2023 of $5 million in WRB to
outputs. These will be released when these factors normalise. capture macroeconomic environment challenges caused by
sovereign defaults or heightened sovereign risk, and $17 million
Judgemental management overlays applied in Central and other items due to a temporary market
China CRE dislocation in the Africa and Middle East region which were
The real estate market in China has been in a downturn since fully released during 2024.
late 2021, as evidenced by continued decline in sales, and Stage 3 assets
investments in the sector. Liquidity issues experienced by Credit-impaired assets managed by Stressed Asset Group
Chinese property developers continued into 2023, with more (SAG) incorporate forward-looking economic assumptions
developers defaulting on their obligations both offshore and in respect of the recovery outcomes identified and are
onshore. During 2023, authorities on the mainland introduced assigned individual probability weightings per IFRS 9.
a slew of policies to help revive the sector and restore buying These assumptions are not based on a Monte Carlo
sentiments. Relaxed monetary policy and fiscal stimulus simulation but are informed by the Base Forecast.
packages continued in 2024, which had assisted in arresting
the drop in new home sales and stabilising new home sales in Sensitivity of ECL calculation to macroeconomic variables
late 2024 to an extent in some cities, but home prices remain The ECL calculation relies on multiple variables and is
muted overall. Continued policy relaxations, including those inherently non-linear and portfolio-dependent, which implies
related to house purchase restrictions, completion support for that no single analysis can fully demonstrate the sensitivity
eligible projects from onshore financial institutions, relaxation of the ECL to changes in the macroeconomic variables.
in mortgage rates, and further support for affordable housing, The Group has conducted a series of analyses with the aim of
are key for reversing the continued decline in sales and identifying the macroeconomic variables which might have
investments and ensuring continued stabilisation in 2025. the greatest impact on the overall ECL. These encompassed
The Group’s loans and advances to China CRE clients was single variable and multi-variable exercises, using simple up/
$1.9 billion at 31 December 2024 (31 December 2023: $2.4 down variation and extracts from actual calculation data,
billion). Heightened risk management continues to be carried as well as bespoke scenario design assessments.
out, with a focus on managing upcoming maturities through The primary conclusion of these exercises is that no individual
refinancing and/or repayment. No new financing transactions macroeconomic variable is materially influential. The Group
were entered into, and total repayments amounted to around believes this is plausible as the number of variables used
$500 million during 2024. Clients with exposure maturing in the ECL calculation is large. This does not mean that
within the next 12 months have been placed on purely macroeconomic variables are uninfluential; rather, that the
precautionary or non-purely precautionary early alert, where Group believes that consideration of macroeconomics should
appropriate, for closer monitoring. Given the evolving nature involve whole scenarios, as this aligns with the multi-variable
of the risks in the China CRE sector, a management overlay of nature of the calculation.
$70 million (31 December 2023: $141 million) has been taken by
The Group faces downside risks in the operating
estimating the impact of further deterioration to exposures in
environment related to the uncertainties surrounding the
this sector. The decrease from 31 December 2023 was primarily
macroeconomic outlook. To explore this, a sensitivity analysis
driven by repayments and utilisation due to movement to
of ECL was undertaken to explore the effect of slower
stage 3.
economic recoveries across the Group’s footprint markets.
Other Two downside scenarios were considered in particular to
In CIB, additional overlays of $109 million (31 December 2023: explore the current uncertainties over commodity prices.
nil) have been taken, $58 million of which is in Hong Kong, The ‘Global Trade and Geopolitical Tensions’ scenario is
with the remainder relating to Bangladesh and an immaterial characterised by an escalating trade war between the US
amount for climate risks. The overlay in Hong Kong reflects and China and other economies. The ‘Higher for Longer
subdued economic activity and increasing commercial Commodities and Rates’ scenario explores the impact from
property vacancy rates, which contributes to an uncertain stickier than expected inflation due to persistent shipping
outlook that are not yet fully reflected in the credit grades disruptions and rise in energy prices amid fears of an
and modelled ECL. The risk of further impairment remains as escalation of the Middle East conflict.
a result of subdued economic activity in the property sector
and the related liquidity constraints faced by counterparties
as a result. The overlay in Bangladesh reflects the political
situation that has contributed to an increasing level of
uncertainty in the macroeconomic outlook. The overlays for
Hong Kong and Bangladesh have been determined by
estimating the impact of a deterioration to certain exposures
in these countries.
242 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Risk review Risk profile
Climate Risk
Disclaimer
For the avoidance of doubt, this Climate Risk section is subject to the statements included in (i) the ‘Forward- Looking Statements’
section; and (ii) the ‘Basis of Preparation and Caution Regarding Data Limitations’ section provided under ‘Important Notices’ at
page 397.
Managing Climate Risk An environmental (such as climate), social or governance
Environmental, Social and Governance and Reputational event, or change in condition, if it occurs, could result in actual
(ESGR) Risk is defined as the risk of potential or actual adverse or potential financial loss or non-financial detriments to the
impact on the environment and/or society, or to the Group’s Group. As such, Climate Risk is identified as a material risk
financial performance, operations or name, brand or standing, for the Group, which is integrated across relevant Principal
arising from environmental, social or governance factors, or as Risk Types (PRTs) and is managed via the ESGR Risk Type
a result of the Group’s actual or perceived actions or inactions. Framework. The Group is exposed to climate risk through
ESGR Risk continues to be an area of growing importance, our clients, own operations, vendors, suppliers and from the
driving a need for strategic transformation across business industries and markets we operate in.
activities and risk management.
Climate Risk Taxonomy
Climate Risk The potential for financial loss and non-financial detriments arising from climate change and
society’s response to it.
Physical Risk Risks arising from increasing severity and frequency of climate and weather-related events,
which can damage property and other infrastructure, disrupt supply chains, and impact food
production. Additionally, they may lead to declining assets valuations and challenges with
insurance claims, resulting in greater financial losses. Indirect effects on the macroeconomic
environment, such as lower output and productivity, may exacerbate these direct impacts.
Acute Specific event-driven weather events, including increased severity of extreme weather
events, such as cyclones, hurricanes, floods, or wildfires.
Chronic Longer-term shifts in climate patterns, such as changing precipitation patterns, sea-level rise,
and longer-term drought.
Transition Risk Risk arising from the adjustment towards a carbon-neutral economy, which will require
significant structural changes to the economy. These changes will prompt a reassessment
of a wide range of asset values, a change in energy prices, and a fall in income and
creditworthiness of some borrowers. In turn, this leads to credit losses for lenders and
market losses for investors.
The Board committees consider climate-related risks and driven by the adoption and implementation of International
opportunities when reviewing and guiding strategic decisions. Sustainability Standards Board and European Sustainability
Board-level oversight is exercised through the Board Risk Reporting Standards.
Committee (BRC), and regular climate risk updates are • Risk management: Regulators continued to drive the
provided to the Board and BRC. At an executive level, the integration of Climate Risk into day-to-day business/
Group Risk Committee has appointed the Climate Risk operations for regulated financial institutions, moving
Management Committee (CRMC), consisting of senior their focus towards stress testing and scenario analysis.
representatives from business, risk, and other functions such Regulators have also started to look at the transition
as Internal Audit, which oversees Climate Risk including the planning process in some markets.
implementation of Climate Risk workplan and progress made
• Taxonomies and product-related standards: Financial
by the Group in meeting regulatory requirements.
regulators and leading industry bodies continued to
Key financial regulators across our footprint have proposed or report, consult, and set rules and guidelines around
set supervisory expectations on climate and environmental sustainable finance product frameworks and reporting.
risk management. Those expectations are broadly aligned The key concern remains ensuring market integrity and
with the Basel Committee principles for the management of greenwashing prevention.
climate-related financial risks, but local implementations vary.
For more information on the Group’s governance approach for
We actively engage with industry bodies and regulators to climate-related risks and opportunities, see pages 98 to 102.
seek consistency in policy making across our markets. Climate
Risk-related regulatory developments and obligations set Climate Risk Appetite metrics
by both financial and non-financial service regulators Our Climate Risk Appetite Statement is approved annually
are tracked at Group and country level, with roles and by the Board and supported by Board RA metrics and
responsibilities set out in the Group’s ESGR Risk Policy. Management Team Limits (MTLs) across impacted risk types.
The Board RA metrics are approved by the Board and the
Key regulatory trends we observe include:
MTLs by the Group Risk Committee annually and any
• Disclosures: Elevated volume of proposals, updates or new breaches of either are reported to the Board Risk Committee
climate and sustainability-related disclosure requirements and Group Risk Committee.
across the markets in which we operate. This is partially
256 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 257
Risk
review
and
Capital
review
Limitations with existing tools and data
Group Climate Risk Appetite Statement We recognise that assessing climate risk has its limitations
“The Group aims to measure and manage financial and as quantifying approaches are still evolving:
non-financial risks arising from climate change, and • Data availability and client coverage continue to pose
reduce the emissions related to our own activities and challenges, especially in emerging markets. With the limited
those related to the financing of clients in alignment with coverage of granular client-level information at both Group
the Paris Agreement.” and entity level, there is reliance on use of proxies e.g. sector
and regional averages, sovereign heatmaps, and credit
We have cross-cutting Board RA metrics and MTLs across grade projections and movements.
WRB Risk, CIB Risk, Traded Risk, Country Risk and an • Further, most tools and modelling approaches present a
enterprise-wide metric focusing on the divergence of key gross risk profile that often overlooks existing adaptation
sectors (Power, Oil and Gas, Automotive Manufacturing, Steel, measures, as well as government policies to protect
Aluminium and Cement) from the Group’s net zero pathway. and build for changing climate. Assumptions in climate
As part of our annual Risk Appetite review, we continue to modelling also continue to rely on nascent methodologies
focus on evaluating current metrics, tightening limits where which do not factor non-linear shifts and complex feedback
necessary and expanding coverage for enhanced risk loops or the social dimension of climate change.
identification and management. A revised Risk Appetite • Over time, sovereigns and policymakers are expected to
statement will be in effect from 2025, combining Climate drive market trends, such as investment in adaptation
Risk and Reputational and Sustainability Risk for a more plans, technological advancements, innovative risk transfer
comprehensive coverage. and mitigation approaches to combat the potential
impacts of climate change.
Key Risk Appetite metrics are cascaded to all relevant
markets, supported by management information. The country Notwithstanding the above, we have observed an
Climate Risk profile is also reviewed at country-level risk improvement in data coverage since the creation of our
committees for all subsidiaries. Climate Analyst team in the first line of defence and
development of internal climate risk models. Additionally, we
Processes for identifying and assessing Climate Risks have created a centralised data store to enable the Group
Climate Risk is becoming increasingly critical as climate- to capture all sustainability-related data for our clients.
related events continue to unfold globally, accompanied by This includes monitoring of the data quality, in order to
rising regulatory expectations. In response, we have entered reduce the usage of proxies over time. We intend to refine
into strategic partnerships to develop or gain access to our evaluations and methodologies progressively as the
various toolkits to quantitatively measure climate-related availability and quality of data improves.
physical and transition risks. For example, the Climate X
The data we have captured through various sources has
Spectra platform delivers location-specific risk ratings,
helped us develop our client-level CRAs for existing and new
damages and revenue losses for extreme weather events
clients, improve our internal climate modelling capabilities
linked to climate change, covering private and listed
and strengthen the risk measurement and monitoring of
corporates as well as real estate. The hazard library
our portfolios. Notwithstanding the limitations noted above,
includes 12 hazard types (e.g. flooding, wildfires, and
we can conclude that the results presented below across
tropical cyclones) for time horizons until 2100 under the four
the various PRTs provide strategic direction in relation to the
Representative Concentration Pathway (RCP) and four
risks measured.
Shared Socioeconomic Pathways (SSPs) scenarios. Focus
for 2025 and beyond will include improving the financial Looking ahead
quantification aspects leveraging Climate X data, which
We expect a continuing trend of change in the coming years,
will enable enhanced loss estimation from physical risk
including: (i) a greater focus on our Physical Risk measurement
hazard events. We have worked with our vendors to develop
capabilities across data, CRAs, scenario analysis, reporting
our internal transition risk models. This will be extended to
and model development; (ii) streamlining client-level
additional sectors and physical risk assessment in 2025 to
assessments across financial and non-financial ESGR Risk (iii)
further reduce our reliance on third-party models.
integrating client transition plans in CRAs, scenario analysis
and models; (iv) upskilling employees to enhance portfolio
Internal training programmes to better identify and
management and oversight on clients exposed to ESGR Risk
mitigate risk
or divergent from our net zero targets; (v) operationalising
In order to effectively embed climate risks across the Group,
support for countries with local ESGR-related regulations,
we have rolled out a comprehensive eight-module role-
stress testing requirements and disclosures; and (vi) further
specific Climate Risk and net zero credit certification. This
embedding greenwashing risk.
includes a core module covering climate change science,
transition scenarios, Climate Risk Assessments (CRAs) and net
Managing the financial and non-financial risks
zero targets and alignment calculations, and a sector-specific
from climate change
training, focusing on Oil and Gas, Power, Steel, Aluminium,
Shipping and Automobile clients. This augments our existing We manage Climate Risk according to the characteristics of
foundational sustainability training which covers climate the impacted PRTs.
risk at a basic level. We recognise that various countries Risk Framework Owners for the impacted PRTs are responsible
have been stepping up their regulatory requirements and for embedding Climate Risk requirements within their
monitoring in relation to climate risk. In response to this respective risk types. In 2024, we have continued to embed
trend, we continue to provide our senior risk officers in Climate Risk into existing risk management frameworks and
country with dedicated training and working group updates. processes. The Climate Risk identification and assessments
Periodic training sessions on Climate Risk integration continue across the PRTs span across short, medium, and long-term
to be provided to the first and second line of defence to horizons to enable right level of monitoring and to inform the
further strengthen the understanding of Climate Risk and its decision-making process.
application within the Group.
See page 89 for more information on the definitions for short,
medium and long-term horizons.
Risk review Risk profile
Credit Risk
We have developed a Climate Risk management framework, which outlines the approach for a baseline level of effective
risk mitigation.
Wealth & Retail Banking (WRB) Credit Risk
In 2024, we progressed further in our journey to embed Climate Risk into our monitoring and risk management across
products and segments in the WRB portfolio. In terms of risk assessment coverage, as of September 2024, we have
assessed Physical Risk for 77 per cent and Transition Risk for 52 per cent of the overall WRB portfolio.
Physical Risk measurement and monitoring in WRB Transition Risk measurement and monitoring in WRB
(as of September 2024) (as of September 2024)
1%
23% 22%
47% 48% 44%
67%
76% 77%
100%
99%
77% 78%
53% 52% 56%
33%
24% 23%
Overall Consumer SME Private CCPL Overall Consumer SME Private CCPL
WRB Mortgage Banking Banking WRB Mortgage Banking Banking
Physical Risk assessed Physical Risk not assessed Transition Risk assessed Transition Risk not assessed
Outstanding Exposures Assessed
of which
Overall Consumer SME Private
WRB Mortgage Banking Banking CCPL
Physical Risk 96.7 75.7 5.1 3.2 12.7
Transition Risk 65.6 42.8 2.3 4.3 16.2
1. Physical Risk management approach for WRB
Risk identification and assessment Risk monitoring and reporting
Secured portfolios (backed by residential, commercial or We assess the exposure concentrations subjected to high risk
industrial property) across acute and chronic hazards quarterly and reported
For our portfolios secured against property collateral, these at-risk management committees at Group, region, and
assessments are based on the underlying residential, country, with a focus on flood risk and rising sea levels, due to
commercial, or industrial property. We continue to leverage the inherent risk profiles of our operating markets. Throughout
Munich Re’s Risk Suite (Natural Hazards Edition) to measure 2024, physical risk levels across most products and markets
acute and chronic Physical Risk impacting each asset based have remained largely stable, apart from slight variations in
on their geolocation. exposure subjected to high flood risk due to Munich Re’s storm
surge model update, which led to more granular and accurate
Unsecured portfolios
risk assessments.
For our unsecured portfolio, such as credit cards and personal
loans, we assess Physical Risk that may have the potential
Risk management
to drive higher credit losses through second-order impacts
Physical risk in the residential mortgage portfolio is primarily
that affect our customers’ ability to repay, employing proxies
mitigated under the existing credit underwriting process
aligned to credit portfolio risk profiles. In 2024, we enhanced
through the setting of prudent loan-to-value limits, which is
the proxy methodology, using a significantly larger and more
supported by a robust and independent property valuation
representative sample that provided greater stability and
process, as well as the requirement of insurance for the life
accuracy in the resultant risk profiles.
of the loan. To mitigate the residual risk, which may begin
to materialise for our residential mortgages with sustained
exposure to heightened Physical Risk, some markets
have started establishing zoning policies that involve
the identification of high Physical Risk zones and the
implementation of differentiated underwriting policy
criteria targeting new mortgages originating from these
higher-risk regions.
258 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 259
Risk
review
and
Capital
review
Assessment of acute and chronic Physical Risk for top 10 markets’ exposures backed by property collateral, indicating
exposure concentration subjected to high gross risk (as of September 2024)
Korea Hong Kong Taiwan
Global 23% 38% 7%
Proportion of book Q3-23 Q3-24 Trend Q3-23 Q3-24 Trend Q3-23 Q3-24 Trend Q3-23 Q3-24 Trend
Flood Risk 13.1% 12.9% 10.6% 10.8% 16.2% 16.3% 11.3% 11.3%
Sea-level rise
(Year 2100, RCP 8.5) 2.3% 2.3% 0.6% 0.6% 3.6% 3.6% 0.0% 0.0%
India Singapore Malaysia UAE
5% 18% 4% 1%
Proportion of book Q3-23 Q3-24 Trend Q3-23 Q3-24 Trend Q3-23 Q3-24 Trend Q3-23 Q3-24 Trend
Flood Risk 18.2% 17.0% 4.6% 4.4% 5.1% 5.2% 6.6% 5.5%
Sea-level rise
(Year 2100, RCP 8.5) 1.0% 0.9% 0.1% 0.1% 0.2% 0.3% 36.2% 36.0%
Jersey Vietnam China
2% 1% 2%
Proportion of book Q3-23 Q3-24 Trend Q3-23 Q3-24 Trend Q3-23 Q3-24 Trend
Flood Risk 21.9% 19.4% 53.3% 51.1% 50.2% 47.8%
Sea-level rise
(Year 2100, RCP 8.5) 0.0% 0.0% – 1.2% 1.5% 8.3% 8.6%
Note: Movements are called out for markets showing a change of more than 5 per cent year-on-year change in exposure concentration subjected to high
Physical Risk. The Q3 2023 exposure concentrations have been rebased using the updated Munich Re Risk Suite following the storm surge model update.
2. Transition Risk management approach for WRB
Unlike the UK and Europe, our key residential mortgage markets in Asia, Africa and the Middle East continue to have no
regulatory policy requirements around minimum building energy-efficiency standards or government-mandated energy-
efficiency rating schemes such as energy performance certificates (EPC). As such, we continue to leverage alternate
approaches to gain an early understanding of the proportion of our key mortgage portfolios that may be potentially affected
by transition risk, through quantifying the robustness of our clients’ income to sustain potential increases in energy spend.
In 2024, we refreshed the transition risk assessment of our key mortgage portfolios based on year-end 2023 data, enabling us
to do a year-on-year comparison against year-end 2022 results. Based on the analysis in the past two years, we see no material
movements and continue to observe low transition risk levels across our key residential mortgage markets. In the future, once
additional data becomes available, we aim to account for valuation-related risks of property collateral due to transition risk,
which we believe is the most significant transition risk driver for residential mortgages.
Transition Risk ratings using Group mortgage baselining approach by exposure concentration (as of December 2023) –
Singapore, Hong Kong, Taiwan
Very high High Medium Low Very Low
5% 1%1%1% 8% 1% 12%
6%
Singapore Hong Kong 9% Taiwan
$9.4bn $28.8bn $4.1bn
53%
19%
91%
90%
For the Jersey residential mortgage portfolio, which is largely made up of buy-to-let properties located in the UK, we used
EPC data to assess the energy-efficiency distribution, with results indicating that circa 80 per cent of the portfolio with available
EPC ratings is rated C or better.
Risk review Risk profile
2. Transition Risk management approach for WRB continued
Transition Risk ratings for residential mortgages
in Jersey using EPC ratings by exposure EPC ratings for residential mortgages in Jersey, by count
concentration (as of August 2024) (as of August 2024)
6% 0.3% 60%
A
15% B
C
D
E
Jersey
$0.3bn
9% 9%
15% 8%
3% 4% 1% 2% 3%
0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0%
64%
A B C D E A B C D E A B C D E
Prior to 2000 2000 - 2021 2022 onwards
We continue to explore ways to enhance our assessment approaches across both secured and unsecured WRB portfolios
through improved methodologies and data. This will enable us to better assess the susceptibility to and readiness of our clients
in managing climate-driven risks, while also enabling us to identify opportunities to assist them in their transition towards a
low-carbon economy.
Our key focus for 2025 includes expanding the scope of our existing credit origination process to cover climate-related
considerations to small and medium business clients. This will enable us to better understand the physical and transition risks
faced by our clients, as well as their readiness in adapting to these increasingly consequential risks.
Corporate & Investment Banking (CIB) Credit Risk
This section covers details of how we assess climate risk for our corporate clients, including insights gained from our
client-level assessments and progress made to further strengthen our framework for climate and credit related portfolio
and risk management. The figure below outlines our process in assessing climate risk.
1. I dentify risks and
5. C ontrols and assurance mitigation plans
1.
• Data gathering
• Control Sample Testing
• Independent assurance 5. • Client outreach
• Scenario analysis
2.
4. P ortfolio management
and monitoring 2. Analysing the risks
4.
• Credit underwriting principles Climate Risk Assessment (BRAG)
3.
• Risk Appetite (% Black or Red)
• High Climate Risk clients monitoring
Green
Mitigating
factors
Amber
3. E valuating the risk
Business Credit Application (BCA) Red Time impact
horizon
• Review and approval • Financial impacts Black
• BCA analysis • Warning signals
• Risk triggers
260 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 261
Risk
review
and
Capital
review
1. Identify risks and mitigation plans
Our client-level Climate Risk Questionnaire (CRQ) helps assess the potential financial risks from climate change using
quantitative and qualitative information. The assessment presents a consolidated view across five pillars of how exposed
and ready for transition or adaptation our clients may be. Out of the five pillars, the first one relates to identifying relevant
data sources and disclosures and is the only section that is not scored.
Data sources Gross Physical Risk Gross Transition Credibility of
and disclosures Physical Risk adaptation Risk Transition Plans
(CTPs)
Reporting Exposure to acute Mitigations to acute Relative emissions Decarbonisation
and chronic events and chronic events for sector and region plan, governance and
• Sources of data
emission targets
• Level of • Asset locations • Assessment of client’s • Reliance on fossil
disclosures, exposed to physical adaptation plans fuel/carbon products, • Assess client’s plans
Carbon risk events (floods, • Insurance coverage net zero trajectory and its credibility
Disclosures storms, droughts etc) to protect against alignment to transition its
Project rating • Model output to physical risk • Policy, environmental business and
assess current and impact due to supply chain
future risk to client’s sovereign backed by robust
operating locations decarbonisation governance
policy in sector mechanisms
• Potential financial • Emissions reporting
impact from various targets and plan to
climate scenarios achieve them
• Capex in
low-carbon
technologies,
internal carbon
pricing scenarios
The CRQ helps us to form a view of the overall Climate Risk profile of our clients and supports the underlying themes that feed
into our broader scenario analysis and corporate planning exercises. Following enhancement in 2023, the CRQ was used to
assess our portfolio in 2024. In late 2024, we launched the fourth version of the CRA, which introduced net zero alignment
metrics to inform Transition Risks and the outputs from internal models. A key focus for 2025 and beyond is to improve the
financial quantification of Physical Risk in the CRA, leveraging Climate X data, which will enable enhanced loss estimation
from physical risk hazard events. We have also started to grade Physical Risk for property and shipping backed collaterals.
Coverage of our analysis
As of September 2024, we completed CRAs for 4,065 clients, representing circa 71 per cent of our corporate client limits.
The levels and consistency in the availability of climate information from public disclosures has increased in the last three
years, however, this is still a developing aspect in some of our footprint markets where the transition journey is in its nascent
stages. The difference between our own ambitions and the nationally disclosed contributions in some of our markets has
further highlighted the importance of engaging with our clients on this topic, so we are able to assess clients across our
markets appropriately.
See pages 74 to 89 for more information on our net zero aspiration.
How different markets in our footprint compare
Clients are assessed across the four pillars relating to gross physical and transition risk, as well as their respective mitigation
levels, i.e. physical risk adaptation and credibility of transition plan, each of which are scored between 0 and 100 per cent,
with a higher score indicating a better result (e.g. lower risk or higher mitigation levels). The average of these scores across all
assessed clients is shown below by market.
Client-level Climate Risk Assessment scores by markets
Gross Physical Physical Risk Gross Transition Credibility of
2024 YTD Assessment Number of clients score adaptation Risk Transition Plan
Asia – Greater China & North Asia 1,714 65% 33% 51% 52%
Asia – ASEAN & South Asia 939 56% 28% 49% 46%
Africa & Middle East 343 65% 14% 51% 30%
Europe & Americas 1,069 69% 51% 52% 73%
Total 4,065 64% 35% 51% 54%
Risk review Risk profile
• Transition Risk scores remained fairly stable and improved across regions.
– We continue to see better Credibility of Transition and Physical Risk adaptation scores for corporates domiciled in Europe
and Americas, where disclosure levels are highest, 2050 net zero plans have been committed to, and the plans to effectively
manage Climate Risk are being put in place.
– There has been a slight slowdown in the pace of transition planning at corporate level given the focus on energy security
amidst increased geopolitical pressures. However, the long-term trend of gradual increase in quantifiable climate change
commitments, driven by increasing CTPs numbers across markets, is intact.
• Physical Risk adaptation continues to be area of concern for majority of our markets, with the lowest absolute scores in Africa
and the Middle East followed by Asia.
• Asia dominates our total volume of clients, with a 65 per cent share of the global client base assessed (2023: 65 per cent;
2022: 62 per cent).
2. Analysing the Climate Risk BRAG ratings
Each client is assigned a colour-coded Climate Risk rating Clients are deemed to have very
(Black “B”, Red “R”, Amber “A”, Green “G” BRAG) based on the Black high exposure to Transition Risk with
gross transition risk and transition risk mitigation. Owing to little or no mitigation plans
Physical Risk data being less robust, we have focused only on
Transition Risk drivers to compute the Climate Risk grading. Clients are deemed to have very high
However, as highlighted in the section above, we have seen Red exposure to Transition Risk but with
a steady improvement in the coverage of Physical Risk data acceptable or good mitigation plans
in the last few years. We are in the process of incorporating
Clients are deemed to have high
a methodology to include both physical and transition risk
Amber exposure to Transition Risk but with
drivers to assess the climate risk faced by a client.
acceptable or good mitigation plans.
There are currently four types of BRAG ratings assigned
C lients are deemed to have low
to clients.
Green or limited exposure to Transition Risk
The chart below shows a distribution of Green, Amber, Red,
Black rated clients across our markets split by the outstanding 4. Portfolio management and monitoring
exposure as of September 2024. Black-rated clients currently
account for less than one per cent of our assessed exposure. A. Origination stage
We have embedded qualitative and quantitative climate
Portfolio Distribution across key markets
considerations into the Group’s credit underwriting principles
1% 4% 4% 6% for Oil and Gas, Metals and Mining, Shipping, Commercial
21% 18% 21% Real Estate (CRE) and Project Finance portfolios. This includes
27% introducing portfolio-level caps for Black and Red rated clients
and lower preference for emission-intensive transactions.
The underlying principles vary depending on the sector and
are intended to help steer the portfolio in the desired direction
over the medium term, and also consider the Group’s 2030
78% 78% 75% financed emission targets.
68%
B. Exposure monitoring and Risk Appetite thresholds
Concentration of Black and Red Climate Risk rated clients
remain within proposed Risk Appetite thresholds across our
portfolio as of September 2024. Our Green-rated clients are
Europe & Africa & Asia – GCNA1 ASEAN and concentrated in more developed markets and this reflects
Americas Middle East South Asia2
the higher level of Climate Risk disclosures and governance
Green Amber Red Black established by companies in these markets. Asia has the
1 GCNA countries include China, Hong Kong, Japan, Republic of Korea highest proportion of exposure, which is rated Red. Amongst
and Taiwan the key markets, Bangladesh, Nepal, Vietnam and Indonesia
2 ASEAN and South Asia countries include Australia, Bangladesh, Indonesia, drive this higher risk concentration due to a combination of
India, Sri Lanka, Marshall Islands, Macau, Malaysia, Nepal, Philippines,
Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam clients that have fewer disclosures and high Transition Risk,
particularly fossil fuel heavy industries, and some imposition
of carbon taxes and policies to transition the broader nation.
3. Evaluating the risk (linkage to credit process)
This, combined with weaker transition plans, leads corporates
in these markets to be rated as higher Climate Risks.
Once a Climate Risk grading is assigned to a client, the
C. Credit mitigation – collateral
impacts from climate-related risks are integrated into the
We have expanded coverage of Climate Risk and Credit Risk
existing credit approval process qualitatively and/or
considerations to assess corporate clients’ collateral, given
quantitatively through inclusion within the business risk
they serve as key risk mitigants, especially in default events.
analysis and financial modelling. If the risks are deemed
In 2024, an internal methodology was established to identify,
material and not adequately represented via the existing
assess and incorporate appropriate climate-related risks in
credit rating of the client, subjective warning signals may
property and shipping collateral of corporate clients that were
be added to influence the credit rating. Additionally, risk
assessed as part of the client-level CRA.
triggers are added to monitor risks that are not adequately
mitigated and to seek additional information from the client
where applicable.
262 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 263
Risk
review
and
Capital
review
D. High risk client monitoring
A key strategic focus area going forward is to fully embed
Client Level
Climate Risk and net zero targets into business and credit
decisions. To enable this, the Net Zero Climate Risk Working
Forum (Forum) meets quarterly to discuss account plans for
high Climate Risk and net zero divergent clients. Five meetings
have been held so far since Q4 2023. The Forum has reviewed
Client Groups for Climate Risk and net zero commitment Temperature Alignment Credibility of Transition Plan
related risks across Power Generation, Oil and Gas, Steel, Temperature Alignment Readiness and Robustness
Cement, Aluminium, CRE and Commodity Trading sectors. and Comparison to of transition strategy from
The focus of these meetings is to: client peers client risk assesments
• increase engagement with the selected clients to gain a
deeper understanding of their transition commitments and
the strategies they have in place to achieve them
Transaction Level
• drive stronger credit related decisions on exposures
primarily in high transition risk sectors (exposure
management, credit rating impact)
• identify opportunities to support clients in their 2 As defined by the Group’s Position Statement to only provide and phase out
decarbonisation journey through advisory and/or existing financial serNviceets Ztoe crloie nEtms wishsoi obyn 2s0 I3m0, paarec lets s than 5 per cent
financing services dependen In t o fl n u t e h n er c m e a o l c n o a N l ( e b t a Z se e d r o o n a p l e ig rc n en m ta e g n e t r e f v ro en m ue b ). o Ad th di t ionally, any
client that uses thermal coal for captive purposes to support the
• request further information from clients on Physical Risk manufacturing proicnetses rinn iandl ausntrdie sr esugciho ansa All ucmoinnituemx,t Cement and Steel
where there is no economically viable alternative.
adaptation measures employed where Physical Risk is
deemed to be high
• decide on relationship strategies where appropriate. 1 As defined by the Group’s Position Statement to only provide and phase out
existing financial services to clients who by 2030, are less than 5 per cent
E. Credibility of Transition Plans (CTPs) dependent on thermal coal (based on percentage revenue). Additionally,
We aim to actively manage our exposure by working closely any client that uses thermal coal for captive purposes to support the
manufacturing process in industries such as Aluminium, Cement and Steel
with our existing clients to develop credible transition plans
where there is no economically viable alternative.
that are consistent with our net zero commitments. We also
The above-mentioned due diligence supplements our existing
look for opportunities to support lower emissions-intensive
Environmental and Social (E&S) risk management processes
clients. We leverage the data captured in the CRQ and assign
as well as our oversight against our Position Statements and
a credibility rating to the clients’ transition plan based on
Prohibited Activities list. Reviews are conducted at a client-
an in-house scoring methodology that draws on the UK
level to identify root causes, where specific criteria in Position
Transition Planning Taskforce and Glasgow Financial Alliance
Statements are not fully met or there are individual clients
for Net Zero guidance.
that do not comply with the enhanced E&S criteria, and
The current methodology will be periodically reviewed as the propose mitigation plans. Such reviews may involve client
level of client-level climate-related disclosure steps up across engagement and seek commitment from clients to take
our footprint to ensure it remains fit for purpose and in line corrective actions. In case of non-compliance with the
with industry best practices, stakeholder expectations and above-mentioned criteria, such clients are escalated to the
regulatory requirements. The CTP has been embedded into Group Responsibility and Reputational Risk Committee,
the Version 3 CRQ that was implemented in early 2024. where transactions and clients can be rejected.
The Group has commenced an exercise to consolidate
5. Controls and assurance Reputational, E&S and CRAs into a single ESGR Risk
assessment, which we aim to roll out in phases over 2025. This
assessment will bring together multiple sustainability-related
Independent control checks by the first line of defence
risk themes and improve interlinkages between risk types, as
and assurance reviews by the second line of defence on
well as integrate a client’s degree of alignment against the integrating Climate Risk within the credit process are carried
Group’s net zero commitments into the outcome. As a result,
out quarterly to improve the quality and effectiveness of
client reviews of ESGR-related risks will be undertaken to
assessing Climate Risk. The results of the assurance testing
produce a more cohesive client sustainability assessment.
and steps to address gaps are periodically shared with
impacted stakeholders and as part of governance updates The Group has governance frameworks and standards
to risk committees. for Sustainable Finance (SF) attributes which set out the
requirements and responsibilities for managing greenwashing
Environmental, Social and Governance and risks through the ongoing monitoring of sustainable finance
Reputational (ESGR) Risk products, transactions, and clients throughout their lifecycle,
from labelling to disclosures. The Green and Sustainable
We perform additional client-level due diligence for (i)
Product Framework, Sustainability Bond Framework and
corporate clients covered by the Group’s net zero targets for
Transition Finance Framework outline how we apply the
high-carbon sectors (Oil and Gas, Power, Steel, Aluminium,
‘green’, ‘sustainable’ or ‘transition’ labels across products
Cement, Automobiles, Shipping, Aviation, CRE and
Agriculture); (ii) clients with a coal nexus1; and (iii) those that and transactions. In addition, the E&S Risk Management
Framework sets out a series of Position Statements, which
have been assessed at a client-level as high Climate Risk.
serve as our E&S guardrails when assessing in-scope SF
The assessment focuses on three pillars covering both client
transactions and pureplay clients.
and transaction-level aspects:
Risk review Risk profile
All SF products are approved by the Sustainable Finance as the Financial Conduct Authority’s (FCA) anti-greenwashing
Governance Committee prior to roll out. All SF-labelled rule, and to address the market integrity and greenwashing
transactions are approved by SF-empowered approvers concerns from regulators around the sustainability-linked
or the Transition Finance Labelling Sub-Committee on a loan market.
transaction-by-transaction basis. An assessment toolkit has
The Group has developed internal guidelines for managing
been developed to standardise the Group’s assessment of SF
the potential risk of greenwashing in our marketing and
attributes for SF transactions. The Group has built a digitised
advertising, including requirements for the review and
solution to enable approved SF conditions to be monitored
approval of sustainability-related marketing campaigns
and tracked in a timely manner. To prevent overconcentration
and communications. These requirements have been set
of SF liability products, daily monitoring through an
out in the governance standards for segment campaigns,
automated dashboard has also been established. We have
corporate communications, and brand management.
enhanced these standards and controls to incorporate
requirements from emerging regulatory obligations, such
Country Risk
The Group uses a set of Physical and Transition Risk rankings to identify the markets most vulnerable and least ready to adapt
and mitigate climate-related Physical and Transition Risks.
Based on the aggregated Physical and Transition Risk scores, sovereigns are split into decile-based buckets ranging from
1 (low risk) to 10 (high risk). These rankings are used as qualitative and quantitative inputs to our internal Country Risk
management process spanning annual sovereign credit grades and limits reviews, inputs to climate-related scenario
analysis, and Risk Appetite.
GCR exposure distribution across the Physical Risk categories (as at 30 September 2024)
Bucket 1 (Best) 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 (Worst)
Exposures % 11.06% 28.81% 18.25% 5.36% 17.67% 8.69% 1.80% 6.73% 0.67% 0.96%
GCR exposure distribution across the Transition Risk categories (as at 30 September 2024)
Bucket 1 (Best) 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 (Worst)
Exposures % 3.19% 14.66% 11.21% 35.43% 18.05% 4.81% 3.93% 7.72% 0.86% 0.14%
Insights Operational, Technology and Cyber Risk
• For both Physical and Transition Risk, our exposure to Climate Risk primarily manifests as an operational, technology
high-risk countries (buckets 9 and 10) remains well below and cyber risk when Physical Risk disrupts our properties, data
Risk Appetite thresholds. centres and vendor arrangements.
• The rankings are largely driven by the level of financial We assess the physical risk vulnerabilities of our existing sites
risk countries are exposed to and their ability to absorb on a regular basis and for new sites during the onboarding
these losses. As such, the rankings are largely dependent process. Going forward, we will be ranking sites that are most
on countries’ development stage, economy-wide susceptible to physical risks to make these sites more resilient
diversification, in-country inequalities and gross exposure by exploring infrastructure improvements, where possible.
to Transition and Physical Risk shocks. Furthermore, we have enhanced our systems to gather
• Additionally, we keep close track of Transition Risk events, relevant data of our key vendors’ delivery locations to assess
such as the establishment of the EU’s and UK’s Carbon the Physical Risk to their facilities to ensure business continuity.
Border Adjustment Mechanism (CBAM) and its potential
We have also evaluated the Transition Risk to achieve net zero
impact on our key portfolios. Other markets with carbon
in our own operations. The Group relies mainly on Renewable
pricing mechanisms (such as Singapore, South Korea,
Energy Certificates (RECs) to abate its Scope 2 emissions,
South Africa,) are also being monitored as part of Country
given our footprint in less regulated markets where access to
Risk annual reviews. From a Physical Risk standpoint, the
renewable energy is often limited or would require significant
Group continues to monitor extreme weather events in
capital investments. Long-term contracts, such as Purchase
key footprint markets as part of our annual Country
Power Agreements, which have more price stability
Risk reviews.
compared to RECs, are being explored, with continued focus
on retrofitting properties for improving energy efficiency
Limitations
where possible.
• The computation inputs are based on latest available data
which may be dated. Proxies have been used where data In terms of non-financial ESGR risk management, on-site
for the sovereign is not available. audits are undertaken for certain vendors assessed to pose
high modern slavery risk and adverse media screening
• The ranking uses equally spaced decile scores and provides
enhancements were implemented to cover key phrases
the results in an ordinal manner. While the simplicity helps
and to include modern slavery and human rights.
in adoption and provides the relative position of the
sovereigns, other systems may provide more information.
Assessment of gross Physical Risk at our own operating locations (as of September 2024)
Asia –
Asia – ASEAN &
Physical Risk event Time horizon Scenario GCNA South Asia AME E&A Global
Flood (Acute) 16% 16% 6% 6% 13%
Wildfire (Acute) 2024 N/A 0% 0% 0% 0% 0%
Storm (Acute) 26% 8% 0% 6% 14%
Sea-level rise (Chronic) 2100 RCP 8.5 1% 1% 5% 0% 2%
Heat Stress (Chronic) 2050 RCP 8.5 0% 56% 37% 0% 26%
Number of operating locations 390 293 217 31 931
264 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 265
Risk
review
and
Capital
review
Insights concentration in the Red Climate Risk rating is broadly
• From an acute risk perspective, 13 per cent of the Group’s comparable with what we see for our top corporate client
locations globally are subjected to extreme flood risk, exposures on the asset side. Liquidity providers graded Red
14 per cent with extreme storm risk and none at extreme risk Climate Risk rating are from Transportation and Storage
from wildfire. Given our footprint, a higher proportion of the sectors. The results of the analysis have been considered as
Group’s locations in GCNA (16 per cent for flood; 26 per cent part of our Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process.
for storm) and ASEAN and South Asia (16 per cent for flood;
8 per cent for storm) are subjected to extreme acute risks Model Risk
and 6 per cent of locations in Europe and Americas, are Since 2022 we have been building our internal Climate
subjected to flood risks. Risk modelling capabilities to assess impacts from Climate
• In the locations where weather events such as storms Risk, through collaboration with various external vendors.
or cyclones are frequent, the buildings are built in The development of internal Climate Risk models has
consideration of these risks to local building standards. reduced our reliance on external vendor models, and we will
continue to enhance our internal capabilities by extending
• From a chronic risk perspective, under RCP 8.5, our exposure
model coverage (e.g. to develop models to cover more
to heat stress is at 26 per cent (37 per cent for AME;
portfolios, or to develop more granular sector-specific models)
56 per cent for ASEAN and South Asia). Exposure to
and incorporating model enhancements recommended by
sea-level rise remains below 5 per cent.
internal and external stakeholders. All the models developed
• A broad range of mitigation options are considered, such are independently validated by the second line of defence
as property insurance and operating a diversified location and approved by the Credit Model Assessment Committee.
strategy to reduce concentration risk. The models were used to estimate climate impact on
Expected Credit Loss (ECL) for IFRS 9 and stress testing
Traded Risk usages. In 2024 we developed two more sector-specific
We manage the Climate Risk of Traded Risk exposures transition risk probability of default (PD) models for
through the stress-testing framework. Climate risks are Automotive and Shipping. We also enhanced the corporate
incorporated in the scenarios monitored against the Traded transition risk PD models to include improved granularity for
Risk stress Risk Appetite, covering all fair value exposures in the Oil and Gas model which better captures sector-specific
the trading and banking books. risk drivers, changing from a constant to a dynamic interest
expense projection and including more accurate capital
Climate-related stress scenarios are designed to include
expenditure calculations. The sovereign climate PD model
transition risk effects from climate change policies and
has also been enhanced by adding material sovereigns,
shocks to markets due to supply and demand disruption from
Hong Kong and Singapore, in model calibration.
physical climate events. Three scenarios are currently in place:
two physical and one transitional. The assumptions and Key priorities for 2025 include expanding model coverage to
results are subject to internal governance. In 2024, a new capture Physical Risk in PD (for corporates) and loss given
transition scenario, where the US unexpectedly participates default (for corporates and retail mortgages) and Transition
in the CBAM, was approved and will replace the current Risk for specialised lending scorecards (Project finance and
transition scenario in 2025. The introduction of this scenario Shipping finance).
will enable us to have a single transition scenario applied
Apart from models that are used to estimate ECL, we have
across the Group. We continue to address gaps related to
developed temperature alignment models that are forward-
market risk factors and shorter-term shocks.
looking and assess implied temperature rise scores for
Our Climate Risk management for Traded Risk exposures is corporate counterparties. The output from temperature
evolving and we are working closely with industry bodies and alignment models supports internal climate risk management
academics to better assess and monitor climate-related risks processes within the Group.
and opportunities.
Assessing the resilience of our strategy using
Treasury Risk scenario analysis
From a capital perspective, climate risk considerations have To assess climate-related risks and opportunities in the short,
been part of our ICAAP submissions since 2019. Our approach medium and long-term we use scenario analysis to consider
for assessing climate risk impact on capital adequacy has how risks and opportunities may evolve under different
improved from qualitative judgements to quantitative situations. We have continued to further strengthen our
simulations across a range of scenarios with the availability scenario analysis capabilities by moving towards internal
of tools and greater understanding of our portfolio. models and developing our infrastructure and capabilities to
We consider climate risk in our ICAAP across Credit Risk, incorporate Climate Risk into data, modelling, and analysis.
Operational, Technology and Cyber Risk and Traded Risk. We have participated in several regulatory climate stress tests
As understanding of climate risk management and potential in 2024, including the Hong Kong Monetary Authority (HKMA)
forward-looking scenarios develop, our approach and climate stress test which was based on three long-tenor and
assessment will continue to evolve. one short-tenor scenarios. We are also participating in the
Monetary Authority of Singapore’s (MAS), Bank Negara
From a liquidity risk perspective, we expanded coverage of
Malaysia’s (BNM) and Otoritas Jasa Keuangan’s (OJK)
the top corporate client liquidity portfolio and continue to
climate stress tests. Results are expected to be submitted
monitor for Climate Risk-related vulnerabilities and readiness,
in 2025.
leveraging the client outreach and data-gathering exercise
undertaken on the asset side. The most recent exposure
Risk review Risk profile
Scenarios used by the Group
The table below summarises the climate risk scenarios used internally by the Group across risk types for scenario analysis,
and Group ICAAP assessments.
Number of Refer
Risk types Scenario family scenarios Risk measure/usecCase page no
Credit Risk – CIB Network for Greening the Financial 6 Stressed ECL 267
System Version 3 (NFGS v3)
Bespoke Tail and Base
Credit Risk – WRB NGFS v3 6 Stressed ECL, Stranded Assets 268
Bespoke Tail and Base estimate
Operational, Technology and Intergovernmental Panel on Climate 2 Physical Risk concentration for 264
Cyber Risk Change’s (IPCC) sea-level rise risk
RCP scenarios
Traded Risk Bespoke (two Physical scenarios and 3 Stressed Loss 265
one Transition scenario)
Transition (T) and Physical (P) Risk scenarios
We adapted the following scenarios for our CIB and WRB businesses:
Scenario family Scenario name Key features
NGFS Phase 3 Net Zero 2050 (T) Global warming limited to 1.5°C through stringent climate policies and innovation
Global net zero CO emissions around 2050
2
Delayed Transition (T) Strong policies will be needed to limit warming to below 2°C
Annual emissions do not decrease until 2030
Current Policies (P+T) No additional policies beyond those currently implemented, along with slow
technology change
Global temperature rises over 3°C by 2100
Bespoke In-house Base Case (P+T) Credibility assessment of countries’ current sector targets in the short to medium-term
(2030) and a durability assessment of reduction commitments in the long-term (2050)
Delayed transition to a low-carbon economy and a lack of early climate action resulting
in a 2.5°C temperature rise by 2100
Green Trade War Tail (T) Impact to global trade due to introduction of the CBAM leading to trade war escalation
Explores risks which are not addressed by the NGFS scenarios and may emerge over a
short to medium-term horizon
Migration Tail (P) Increasing severe acute weather events globally impact global food prices and drive
migration and displacement
IPCC (2050, 2100) RCP 2.6 (P) Pathways of greenhouse gas emissions and atmospheric concentrations, air pollutant
RCP 4.5 (P) emissions and land use to project their consequences for the climate system
RCP 8.5 (P) Current and projected hazard scores across a range of hazards such as tropical
cyclones, river flood, sea-level rise, heat stress, precipitation stress, wildfire, and drought
stress from Munich Re model are used
The scenarios used for CIB clients are characterised by Oil price: increase (or lack thereof) in oil price impacts on
different levels of transition and physical risk, driven by clients’ revenues and profitability, and thus helps to determine
various features in each scenario. level of potential credit losses.
Carbon price: increase in carbon price puts additional cost
pressure on clients, squeezes the profit margin, and thus helps
to determine level of potential credit losses.
Features of the NGFS and Bespoke scenarios used in a Group scenario analysis
NGFS v3 Bespoke scenarios
Green Trade
Migration War Tail
Net Zero Delayed Current Tail Physical Transition
Key Variables Year 2050 Transition Policies Risk Risk
Temperature rise 2050 1.4°C 1.6°C 3°C+ NA NA
Carbon price 2030 124 6 6 61 66
($2015/tCO) 2050 487 416 7 70 90
2
Oil price 2030 84 94 94 51 50
(US$2015/boe) 2050 107 118 125 41 41
2030 56% 43% 43% 15% 15%
Gas price change (vs 2020, %)
2050 52% 54% 80% -14% -14%
2030 27% 35% 35% 20% 20%
Power demand change (vs 2020, %)
2050 120% 129% 106% 75% 75%
2030 34% 36% 36% -4% -5%
GDP baseline change (vs 2020, %)
2050 111% 110% 118% -2% -5%
266 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 267
Risk
review
and
Capital
review
Scenario analysis results for CIB The Green Trade War Tail Transition Risk scenario shows the
We assessed the impact of climate-related risks on our highest LI intensity, reflecting the potential risks to the global
corporate, sovereign, and financial institution clients covering economy and subsequent increase in credit losses that
94 per cent of CIB exposures. This assessment, across the may manifest due to the climate subsidy competition and
NGFS and Bespoke scenarios, for these clients is primarily introduction of CBAM. The high LI intensity in the Migration
reflective of the gross transition risks, and limited impact from Tail Physical Risk scenario is due to typhoons in the east Asian
physical risks. While client-level transition plans were not economic hubs along with floods in India and Pakistan
factored into the modelling, they were referenced to draw leading to mass migration and drop in world GDP. The high
additional insights for priority sectors. LI intensity in the Delayed Transition scenario depicts that
delayed transition will be disruptive due to a lower level of
We used the first-generation internally developed transition innovation that limits the ability to decarbonise effectively,
risk models for NGFS scenarios in 2024, which was the first step and rising carbon prices that squeeze profit margins. The high
in our journey to transition from our reliance on vendor models LI intensity in the Net Zero 2050 scenario is reflective of the
to in-house capabilities. high transition risks noted by higher carbon prices, coupled
The cumulative Loan Impairment (LI) Intensity measures the with the need for greater investment to move to a low-carbon
level of incremental ECL against the exposure at default economy. Relatively lower LI intensity observed in the NGFS
(EAD). This metric enables us to assess the relative size of Current Policies scenario reflects the nascent modelling
our exposure subject to potential losses from climate risks. capabilities on assessing the physical risk impact to client
As the graph below illustrates, cumulative LI intensities do asset locations and second-order impacts, such as that on
not go beyond three per cent during the forecast horizon for the supply chain.
the climate scenarios considered in our scenario analysis. Overall, we believe that the level of potential credit losses can
We expect the LI intensity to rise the most in the Green Trade be mitigated by continuing to take actions, which the Group is
War scenario (Bespoke Tail Transition Risk) and the Migration already doing across sectors as part of its net zero roadmap,
Tail scenario (Bespoke Tail Physical Risk), followed by the engaging with our clients on this topic and supporting clients
Delayed Transition and Net Zero 2050 scenarios, primarily on their transition journey.
driven by corporates.
See page 74 for more information on the
Group’s transition plan
Loan Impairment Intensity for the Corporate Portfolio
Current policies Delayed transition Net Zero 2050
3.0%
SCB in-house Tail Physical Tail Transition
2.5%
2.0%
2.7%
to
0.7%
1.5%
1.0%
0.5%
0%
2023 2025 2030 2035 2040 2045 2050
Loan Impairment (LI) Intensity is calculated as gross expected credit losses (ECL) over exposure at default (EAD)
For corporate clients, we focused on the sectors in the table below that have been identified as more vulnerable to potential
climate impacts. As of December 2023, these sectors represented circa 48 per cent of our corporate portfolio.
Under the NGFS scenarios assessed, sectors such as Oil and Gas, Utilities, and Automobiles and Components are most
impacted, primarily due to the rise in carbon prices in the scenarios and to some extent by the consequent macroeconomic
changes. For the internal scenarios, GDP crashes and second-order risks impact corporate clients across Oil and Gas,
Utilities, Transportation and Construction sectors. The change in LI intensities compared with previous disclosures is due to a
combination of factors including adoption of in-house models for NGFS scenarios and changes in portfolio mix, amongst others.
Risk review Risk profile
Loan Impairment intensities for key corporate sectors for the NGFS and Bespoke scenarios
NGFS v3 NGFS v3
EAD Y0 NGFS v3 Delayed Current Bespoke Bespoke Tail Bespoke Tail
Long Term – 2050 (%) Net Zero 2050 Transition policies BaselineTransition Risk Physical Risk
Automobiles & Components 3% Medium Medium Medium Low Medium Medium
Building Products, Construction & 5% Medium Medium Low Medium Medium Medium
Engineering
Consumer Durables & Apparel 5% Low Low Low Low Medium Medium
CRE 9% Medium Medium Low Low Medium Medium
Metals & Mining 4% Low Low Low Low Low Low
Oil & Gas 8% High High Medium Medium High Medium
Telecommunication Services 1% Low Low Low Low Medium Low
Transportation & Storage 8% Low Low Low Medium High Medium
Utilities 4% High High High Medium Medium Medium
Total portfolio 100% Medium Medium Low Low Medium Medium
Exposure at Default (EAD) data is as of December 2023
The results are used to assess the impact of climate change The following chart illustrates the stranded asset losses for
on our portfolio and provide management information to 2050 across key residential mortgage markets under the RCP
monitor stressed LI over the next five-year horizon under 8.5 scenario based on Munich Re’s Risk Suite (Natural Hazards
plausible and extreme climate scenarios. The results also Edition). We examined exposure concentration in key markets
form part of our CRAs. While further enhancements to our subject to the extreme risk of floods and storms to assess the
modelling and risk assessment capabilities are ongoing, the acute physical risk, and sea-level rise to assess the chronic
results of scenario analysis have provided further validation physical risk. This analysis also considered additional details,
to the actions the Group is taking in terms of our net zero such as age and type of the property and in-built flood
ambitions and strategy. Additionally, it aligns with our defence mechanism for the acute risk and distance to coast
management initiatives aimed at improving the data quality for the chronic risk, subject to data availability.
and building in-house modelling expertise. The results have
Markets such as Korea, India, Malaysia, China, and
been subject to internal governance, including review and
Bangladesh exhibit a higher level of potential losses as more
challenge by an expert panel and discussion at the CRMC
properties in these markets will be exposed to flood and
and BRC.
storm risks by the year 2050. While properties in UAE
exhibit a higher level of sea-level rise risk by the year 2050.
Scenario analysis results for WRB
It is important to note that while the management
WRB scenario analysis capabilities in 2024 considered the adjustments related to stranded assets and higher energy
changes in portfolio mix, use of NGFS scenarios, Bespoke bills are data-driven, they also involve an element of
Base Case and short to medium-term tail risk scenarios and judgement, and represent gross physical risk measures as
incorporating a more analytical and data-driven approach they do not consider the level of adaptation measures
to management adjustments. enforced by government policies. We will continue to refine
The impact of climate risk is captured through the approach to ensure its effectiveness. These results have
macroeconomic variables that are influenced under a been subject to internal governance, including review and
range of climate conditions and by incorporating the challenge by an expert panel and discussion at the CRMC
following additional considerations: and BRC, and are shared with the first line of defence and
the second line of defence for portfolio monitoring and to
• For our key residential mortgage markets, we reassess guide risk management strategies.
property valuations under different climate scenarios
using the forward-looking risk indices from Munich Re. Our peak LI intensities for 2050 across the range of climate
These revaluations are then used to inform haircuts on scenarios, after incorporating stranded asset overlay, do
the property prices and arrive at climate-adjusted ECL. not exceed 3.1 per cent relative to the counterfactual base
scenario without climate impacts. Insurance policies currently
• The impact of elevated energy bills was taken into
mandated in the key markets such as Hong Kong, China
consideration for the credit card portfolio to address
and UAE cover the damages that may be caused by flood
the transition risks for key markets.
and storm in the short to medium-term. In Korea, where the
• Stranded assets analysis was conducted for residential homeowners’ insurance coverage does not fully mitigate
mortgages to account for the extreme physical risks under residual physical risks, we have established zoning policies
the NGFS Current Policies and Migration Tail Physical Risk to ringfence against properties subject to high physical risk.
scenarios. We define stranded assets as properties that are These measures will help to ensure that the Group remains
expected to become uninhabitable and/or unusable due resilient to the adverse climate conditions. We also continue
to increased frequency and intensity of physical risk events to actively manage the mortgage portfolio to mitigate
from acute and chronic risks. These stranded assets are physical risks build-up.
expected to see a complete erosion to the value of the
property. Insurance benefits were not considered beyond
2030 to build a conservative estimate, given the potential
issues around affordability and availability of insurance for
such stranded assets in the longer term.
268 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 269
Risk
review
and
Capital
review
Expected losses due to stranded assets for retail mortgages
by 2050 (December 2023 snapshot)
The size of the bubble is indicative of the gross stranded asset losses assessed for all
of the residential mortgage book
ksir
hgiH
ksir
muideM
ksir
woL
Low risk Medium risk High risk
)esiR
leveL
aeS(
ksiR
cinorhC
Qualitative review of climate risks and
opportunities in annual business strategy
and financial planning
In 2024, Climate Risk was considered as part of our formal
annual corporate strategy and financial planning process.
We use both qualitative and quantitative aspects focusing
on revenue reliance from clients in high-emitting sectors
UAE and/or locations most exposed to physical risk, considering
the adequacy of mitigation plans. The results are then
independently reviewed by regional and client-segment
China
Chief Risk Officers and the ESGR Risk team. The Board
Hong considers the impact of climate risk as part of their approval Kong of the corporate plan. The 2025 corporate plan includes an
increase in LI due to the impact from Climate Risk. A revenue
at risk sensitivity analysis to the corporate plan was performed
Korea India over the five-year period assuming limited transition, i.e., no
TaiwanSingapore Malaysia client transition plans and no client engagement. This was
Bangladesh considered as a potential downside risk to the corporate plan
only, given the prudent scenario.
In most cases, the Physical and Transition risks identified were
assessed to be well controlled in the short to medium-term.
We are instituting controls around both new and existing
clients with the aim to align those client carbon emission
Acute Risk (Flood and Storm)
intensities and ambitions to be commensurate with the
Group’s portfolios, or there are plans in place to work with the
client on their transition journey. This alignment, done at a
Recent events in countries like Bangladesh, China, and the
portfolio level, and done through balancing existing business
UAE have highlighted the increasing frequency, intensity,
with sustainable and transition finance products to clients
and unexpected nature of natural disasters. In Bangladesh,
in high-emitting sectors to help decarbonise their business
heavy monsoon rains have led to significant flooding,
models. Further our growth ambition includes sectors with
displacing thousands of people, and causing extensive
lower carbon intensity or emissions such as clean and
damage to infrastructure and agriculture. Similarly, in China,
transition technology. Our Sustainable and Transition
floods from heavy rainfall began in Guangdong Province
Finance product suite and our dedicated Sustainable
and spread northward, raising water levels in the Yangtze
Finance, Transition Acceleration and ESG advisory teams
River and the Pearl River Delta, and resulted in significant
aim to mitigate transition risks in the short to medium-term,
flood damage and economic loss. While the UAE is
strengthening our resilience towards a 2°C or lower transition
typically known for its arid climate, recent storms have
scenario. However, longer-term transition risks were
brought unexpected rainfall, leading to localised flooding
highlighted, particularly for Africa and the Middle East region,
and disruption. These events serve as a reminder of the
given its dependency on fossil fuels; and longer-term physical
vulnerabilities due to climate change.
risks were deemed to be most relevant for the Asia region.
Despite recent challenges, the Group has exhibited
significant resilience, attributable to its robust balance
sheet and risk management practices.
Limitations and next steps
Reliance on nascent methodologies, dependencies on
first-generation models and data limitations are some
challenges that underpin the scenario analysis. Many of
these limitations are shared across the industry. Given the
complexities of climate modelling, it should also be noted
that the results do not include the real-world aspects, such as
the non-linear shifts and complex feedback loops. As more
solution providers become available and banks start to
use them extensively to build internal understanding and
capabilities, the transparency and sophistication of modelling
methodologies and assumptions will increase.
Nonetheless, the current results provide a strategic direction
of the sense of portfolio concentrations subject to potential
climate losses. These results are used to inform portfolio
oversight and opportunity identification with clients on
their transition and adaptation pathways.
Additionally, considerable developments have been made in
building capability from a people, process, and technology
perspective to support stress tests and scenario analysis at
both Group and country level. As we look ahead, integrating
internal climate risk models within the Group’s infrastructure
will be a key priority for the upcoming years. The development
of a management actions playbook to incorporate the
elements of climate risk is under way.
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 277
Financial
statements
Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified We took a centralised approach to auditing certain processes
any material uncertainties relating to events or conditions and controls, as well as the substantive testing of specific
that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt balances. This included audit work over the Group’s Global
on the Group and the Parent Company’s ability to continue Business Services shared services centre (SSC), Corporate
as a going concern for a period of twelve months from and Investment Banking (CIB) SSC, Credit Impairment SSC
21 February 2025. and Technology.
In relation to the Group and the Parent Company’s reporting We determined that centralised audit procedures can be
on how they have applied the UK Corporate Governance performed across certain components for the key audit
Code, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in matters outlined later in this report, and for other audit areas,
relation to the directors’ statement in the financial statements including: Revenue recognition; Management override of
about whether the directors considered it appropriate to controls; Technology costs; Impairment of goodwill; Going
adopt the going concern basis of accounting. concern and long-term viability; Hedge accounting; Climate
risk; Share based payments; Taxation; Legal and regulatory
Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors
matters; Centralised reconciliations; Onerous contracts,
with respect to going concern are described in the relevant
including impairment of leased properties; IT matters; and
sections of this report. However, because not all future
certain restructuring and transformation programmes.
events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is
not a guarantee as to the Group’s ability to continue as a In addition to the above areas, for selected components
going concern. in Germany, Japan, South Africa, Iraq and Singapore, the
primary audit engagement team (the ‘Primary Audit Team’)
Overview of our audit approach performed certain procedures centrally over the cash
balances as at 31 December 2024. These components
Audit scope • We performed an audit of the complete financial
are separate to those described below.
information of 10 components in 8 countries
and audit procedures on specific balances for We identified 18 components in 14 countries as individually
a further 8 components in 7 countries. relevant to the Group due a significant risk or an area of higher
• We performed central procedures for certain assessed risk of material misstatement of the group financial
audit areas and balances as outlined in Tailoring statements being associated with the components, or due to
the scope section of our report. financial size of the component relative to the group.
Key audit • Credit impairment For those individually relevant components, we identified
matters • Basis of accounting and impairment assessment the significant accounts where audit work needed to be
of China Bohai Bank (interest in associate) performed at these components by applying professional
• Impairment of investments in subsidiary judgement, having considered the group significant
undertakings accounts on which centralised procedures are performed,
• Valuation of financial instruments held at fair the reasons for identifying the financial reporting component
value with higher risk characteristics. as an individually relevant component and the size of the
Materiality • Overall group materiality of $340m which component’s account balance relative to the group significant
represents 5% of adjusted profit before tax. financial statement account balance.
We then considered whether the remaining group significant
An overview of the scope of the parent company account balances that are not subject to audit procedures, in
and group audits aggregate, could give rise to a risk of material misstatement
of the group financial statements.
Tailoring the scope
Having identified the components for which work will
In the current year our audit scoping has been updated to
be performed, we determined the scope to assign to
reflect the new requirements of ISA (UK) 600 (Revised).
each component.
We have followed a risk-based approach when developing
our audit approach to obtain sufficient appropriate audit Of the 18 components selected, we designed and performed
evidence on which to base our audit opinion. We performed audit procedures on the entire financial information of
risk assessment procedures, with input from our component 10 components (“full scope components”). For 5 components,
auditors, to identify and assess risks of material misstatement we designed and performed audit procedures on specific
of the Group financial statements and identified significant significant financial statement account balances or
accounts and disclosures. When identifying components at disclosures of the financial information of the component
which audit work needed to be performed to respond to (“specific scope components”). For the remaining 3
the identified risks of material misstatement of the Group components, we performed specified audit procedures to
financial statements, we considered our understanding of the obtain evidence for one or more relevant assertions.
Group and its business environment, the applicable financial
framework, the Group’s system of internal control at the entity
level, the existence of centralised processes, IT application
environment, and any relevant internal audit results.
Group`s Absolute PBT Group Total Assets Group`s Absolute Operating Income
2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
Full Scope 64% 62% 87% 87% 72% 72%
Specific Scope 10% 15% 5% 7% 9% 14%
Specified Procedures 2% 1% 0.30% 0.10% 2% 1%
Total 76% 78% 92% 94% 83% 87%
Of the remaining components that together represent testing of consolidation journals and intercompany
24 per cent of the Group’s absolute PBT, none are individually eliminations, inquiring with certain overseas EY teams on the
greater than 1.9 per cent. For certain of these components, outcome of prior year local statutory audits (where audited
we performed other procedures at the Group level which by EY) to identify any potential risks of material misstatement
included: performing analytical reviews at the Group financial to the Group financial statements. We also had regard
statement level, evaluating entity level controls, performing for the extent of centralised procedures in respect of key
audit procedures on the centralised shared service centres, audit matters.
Financial statements Independent auditor’s report
Involvement with component teams Climate change
In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we Stakeholders are increasingly interested in how climate
determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken change will impact the economy, including the banking sector,
at each of the components by us, as the Primary Audit Team and further how this may consequently impact the valuation
or by component auditors from other firms operating under of assets and liabilities held on bank balance sheets. The
our instruction. All of the direct components of the Group (full, Group manages climate risk according to the characteristics
specific or specified procedures) were audited by EY global of the impacted risk types and is embedding climate-risk
network firms. There was one non-EY component team considerations into relevant frameworks, including principal
auditing a single component in a single location, which was risk type frameworks, and processes. The assessment of
instructed by a direct component of the Group. that risk by the Group is explained on pages 256 to 257 in the
‘Risk Review and Capital Review’ section, and on pages 57
Audit procedures were performed on 3 full scope components
to 102 in the ‘Sustainability review’ section of the Annual
(including the audit of the Company) directly by the Primary
Report, where management has also explained their
Audit Team (EY London) in the United Kingdom. Where
climate commitments.
components were audited by the Primary Audit Team, this
was under the direction and supervision of the Senior All of these disclosures form part of the ‘Other information’,
Statutory Auditor. For the remaining 15 components, where rather than the audited financial statements. Our procedures
the work was performed by component auditors, we on these unaudited disclosures therefore consisted solely of
determined the appropriate level of involvement to enable considering whether they are materially inconsistent with the
us to determine that sufficient audit evidence had been financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the course
obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole. of the audit or otherwise appear to be materially misstated,
in line with our responsibilities on ‘Other information’.
In addition to the above, the Primary Audit Team also
performed full-scope audit procedures on components In planning and performing our audit we assessed the
related to the Group consolidation process. potential impacts of climate change on the Group’s
business and any consequential material impact on its
In addition, the Group has centralised processes and controls
financial statements.
over key areas in its shared service centres. Members of the
Primary Audit Team undertook direct oversight, review and The Group has explained in the ‘Sustainability review’ section
coordination of our shared service centre audits. The Primary of the Annual Report how they have reflected the impact of
Audit Team continued to follow a programme of planned climate change in their financial statements, including how
visits to component teams and shared service centres. this aligns with their commitment to the aspirations of the
During the current year’s audit cycle, visits were undertaken Paris Agreement to achieve net zero emissions by 2050.
by the Primary Audit Team to the component teams in the Significant judgements and estimates relating to climate
following locations: change are included in the section ‘Climate change impact
on the Group’s balance sheet’ of note 1 to the financial
• Hong Kong
statements. As stated in these disclosures, the Group
• India (including the shared services centre) has considered climate change to be an area which can
• Mainland China impact accounting estimates and judgements through
• Malaysia (including the shared services centre) the uncertainty of future events and the impact of that
uncertainty on the Group’s assets and liabilities.
• Pakistan
Our audit effort in considering the impact of climate change
• Republic of Korea
on the financial statements was focused on evaluating
• Singapore (including the shared services centre) whether management’s assessment of the impact of climate
• United Arab Emirates risk has been appropriately reflected in the valuation of
• United States of America assets and liabilities, where material and where it can be
reliably measured, following the currently effective
These visits involved discussing the audit approach with the
requirements of UK IAS and EU IFRS. This was in the context
component team and any issues arising from their work,
of the Group’s process being limited, given that this is a highly
meeting with local management, attending planning and
evolving area, as a result of limitations in the data available
closing meetings, and reviewing relevant audit working
and the nascent modelling capabilities, and as the Group
papers on risk areas. In addition to the site visits, the Primary
considers how it further embeds its climate ambitions into
Audit Team interacted regularly with the component and SSC
the planning process.
audit teams where appropriate during various stages of the
audit, reviewed relevant working papers and deliverables to As part of this evaluation, we performed our own risk
the Primary Audit Team, and were responsible for the scope assessment, supported by our climate change specialists,
and direction of the audit process. to determine the risks of material misstatement in the
financial statements from climate change which needed
The Primary Audit Team also undertook video conference
to be considered in our audit.
meetings with component and SSC audit teams and
management. These virtual meetings involved discussing We also challenged the Directors’ considerations of climate
the audit approach and any issues arising from their work, change risks in their assessment of going concern and
as well as performing remote reviews of key audit workpapers. viability, and the associated disclosures. Where considerations
of climate change were relevant to our assessment of going
This, together with the procedures performed at Group level,
concern, these are described above.
gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group
and Company financial statements. Based on our work, we have considered the impact of climate
change on the financial statements to impact certain key
audit matters. Details of our procedures and findings are
included in our explanation of key audit matters below.
278 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Financial statements Independent auditor’s report
Risk Our response to the risk
Credit Impairment continued Economic scenarios – In collaboration with our economists, we
challenged the completeness and appropriateness of the
macroeconomic variables used as inputs to the ECL models.
Additionally, we involved our economic specialists to assist us in
evaluating the reasonableness of the base forecast for a sample
of macroeconomic variables most relevant for the Group’s ECL
calculation. Procedures performed included benchmarking the
forecast for a sample of macroeconomic variables to peers,
historical data and a variety of global external sources. We assessed
the output for a sample of economic variables across different
markets from the Monte Carlo simulation for reasonableness. We
reviewed and challenged the appropriateness of the underlying
coding, assumptions, and output of the Monte Carlo simulation.
We assessed the reasonableness of the non-linearity impact on ECL
allowances. We engaged our economists, to assess and challenge
the Group’s choice of discrete scenarios to benchmark the output
from the Monte Carlo model and determine the sensitivity analysis
as set out on pages 242 and 243 in the annual report. This challenge
included the choice of narrative scenarios and the weights applied
to each scenario. We also performed a stand-back assessment
by benchmarking the uplift and overall ECL charge and provision
coverage to peers.
Management overlays – We challenged the completeness and
appropriateness of overlays used for risks not captured by the
models. We focussed our challenge on Commercial Real Estate in
Mainland China and Hong Kong, the increasing levels of uncertainty
in the outlook for Bangladesh given the political situation and the
introduction of a new overlay relating to Bank’s exposure to clients
trading on two failed e-commerce platforms in South Korea. Our
procedures included assessing the need for management overlays,
evaluating the assumptions and judgments used to determine
the overlays taking current market conditions into account, and
computing independent ranges where appropriate.
In addition, with the support from our climate risk modelling
specialists we evaluated the initial ECL produced by management’s
models and assessed the appropriateness of the adjustments to the
model output to determine the overall climate overlay.
Individually assessed ECL allowances – We selected a sample of
individually assessed provisions to recalculate. Our recalculation
procedures included challenging management’s forward looking
economic assumptions of the recovery outcomes identified,
cashflow profiles and timings and the individual probability
weightings used for each scenario.
We also engaged our valuation specialists to test the value of the
collateral used in management’s calculations on a sample basis.
Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee
We communicated that we are satisfied the Bank’s ECL provisions were reasonably estimated and materially in compliance with
IFRS 9. We highlighted the following matters to the Audit Committee that contributed to our overall conclusion:
• Our evaluation of the appropriateness of the significant increase in credit risk triggers, and the results of our staging reperformance.
• For individually assessed ECL allowances, the overall reasonableness of the provisions, including assumptions applied, with a focus
on exposures on Commercial Real Estate in Mainland China and Hong Kong.
• Our assessment of the appropriateness of post model adjustments and overlays, including overlays relating to Commercial Real
Estate in Mainland China and Hong Kong, and non-linearity.
• Our assessment of the appropriateness of the Group’s models to generate the ECL and staging outcomes including the
appropriateness and validity of the data used in the models and to generate the staging and consequent ECL.
• Our assessment of the appropriateness of the Group’s climate models to compute the impact of climate related risks on the
portfolio, noting the judgmental nature of the output and that these first generation models are expected to evolve significantly
over time.
We also highlighted to the Committee that there remains increased uncertainty and volatility in determining expected credit losses
due to the elevated risks in the macroeconomic and geopolitical landscape.
How we scoped our audit to respond to the risk and involvement with component teams
For the purposes of determining the scope of work to be conducted centrally and by component teams, we considered the following:
• The Bank’s material IFRS 9 systems and processes, including modelled ECL, and where those systems and process were located
• The Groups gross exposure and ECL by jurisdiction
• The Bank’s and EY’s independent sovereign risk assessment
• Jurisdiction of origin for individual stage 3 exposures
Based on this assessment, we determined that credit related procedures were required to be performed centrally and by 9 full scope,
5 specific scope and 2 specified scope locations.
The Group audit team`s involvement with the component teams and procedures performed are detailed in the “Involvement with
component teams” section of our report.
280 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Financial statements Independent auditor’s report
Our application of materiality On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our
We apply the concept of materiality in planning and assessment of the Group’s overall control environment, our
performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified judgement was that performance materiality was 50 per cent
misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion. (2023: 50 per cent) of our planning materiality, namely $170m
(2023: $137m). We have set performance materiality at this
Materiality percentage due to a variety of risk factors, such as the
The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, expectation of misstatements, internal control environment
individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be considerations, and other factors such as the global
expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of complexity of the Group.
the financial statements. Materiality provides a basis for Audit work was undertaken at component locations for the
determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures. purpose of responding to the assessed risks of material
We determined materiality for the Group to be $340 million misstatement of the group financial statements. The
(2023: $274 million), which is 5 per cent (2023: 5 per cent) of performance materiality set for each component is based
adjusted profit before tax. This reflects statutory profit before on the relative scale and risk of the component to the Group
tax adjusted for certain non-recurring items. We believe as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement
that adjusted profit before tax provides us with the most at that component. In the current year, the range of
appropriate and relevant measure for the users of the performance materiality allocated to components was
financial statements, given the Group is profit-making, it is $16m to $46m (2023: $11.4m to $26.2m).
consistent with the wider industry, and it is the standard for
Reporting threshold
listed and regulated entities. This increase from prior year
is driven by an increase in our materiality basis of adjusted An amount below which identified misstatements are
profit before tax and is reflected in all materiality thresholds considered as being clearly trivial.
discussed below. We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report
We determined materiality for the Parent Company to be to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of $17m
$306 million (2023: $247 million), which represents 90 per cent (2023: $14m), which is set at 5 per cent of planning materiality,
of Group materiality (2023: 90 per cent) and equates to as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view,
0.6 per cent (2023: 0.5 per cent) of the equity of the Parent warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
company. We believe that equity provides us with the most We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both
appropriate measure for the users of the Parent Company’s the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and
financial statements, given that the Parent Company is in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming
primarily a holding company. our opinion.
• Reported profit before tax – $6,014m Other information
The other information comprises the information included
Starting
in the Annual Report set out on pages 1 to 406, including
basis the Strategic report (pages 1 to 46), the Financial Review
(pages 47 to 56), the Sustainability Review (pages 57 to 102),
the Directors’ report (pages 103 to 191), the Statement of
• Non-recurring items: $793m
directors’ responsibilities (page 192) and the information
not marked as ‘audited’ in the Risk review and Capital
Adjustments
review section (pages 193 to 274), and the Supplementary
information (pages 381 to 406), other than the financial
statements and our auditor’s report thereon. The directors
are responsible for the other information contained within
• Adjusted profit before tax – $6,807m
the annual report.
• Materiality of $340m (5% of
Materiality Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover
adjusted profit before tax)
the other information and, except to the extent otherwise
explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form
of assurance conclusion thereon.
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in
During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial doing so, consider whether the other information is materially
materiality. This assessment resulted in a higher final inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge
materiality calculated based on the actual financial obtained in the course of the audit, or otherwise appears
performance of the Group for the year. to be materially misstated. If we identify such material
inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are
Performance materiality
required to determine whether this gives rise to a material
The application of materiality at the individual account misstatement in the financial statements themselves. If, based
or balance level. It is set at an amount to reduce to an on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a
appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate material misstatement of the other information, we are
of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds required to report that fact.
materiality.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
284 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 285
Financial
statements
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Responsibilities of directors
Companies Act 2006 As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities
In our opinion, the part of the directors’ remuneration report to statement set out on page 192, the directors are responsible
be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with for the preparation of the financial statements and for being
the Companies Act 2006. satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such
internal control as the directors determine is necessary to
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of
enable the preparation of financial statements that are free
the audit:
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
• the information given in the strategic report and the
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are
directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial
responsible for assessing the Group and Parent Company’s
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial
ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as
statements; and
applicable, matters related to going concern and using the
• the strategic report and the directors’ report have been going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either
prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements. intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to
cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Matters on which we are required to report by
exception Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group financial statements
and the Parent Company and its environment obtained in Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about
the course of the audit, we have not identified material whether the financial statements as a whole are free from
misstatements in the strategic report or the directors’ report. material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion.
in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not
report to you if, in our opinion: a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with
ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and
Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate,
been received from branches not visited by us; or they could reasonably be expected to influence the
• the Parent Company financial statements and the part of economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these
the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not financial statements.
in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered
• certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by
capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud
law are not made; or
Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance
• we have not received all the information and explanations
with laws and regulations. We design procedures in line with
we require for our audit.
our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect irregularities,
including fraud. The risk of not detecting a material
Corporate Governance Statement
misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not
We have reviewed the directors’ statement in relation to detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve
going concern, longer-term viability and that part of the deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional
Corporate Governance Statement relating to the group misrepresentations, or through collusion. The extent to
and company’s compliance with the provisions of the UK which our procedures are capable of detecting irregularities,
Corporate Governance Code specified for our review by the including fraud is detailed below.
UK Listing Rules.
However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and
Based on the work undertaken as part of our audit, we detection of fraud rests with both those charged with
have concluded that each of the following elements of the governance of the entity and management.
Corporate Governance Statement is materially consistent
• We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory
with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained
frameworks that are applicable to the Group and
during the audit:
determined that the most significant are those that
• Directors’ statement with regards to the appropriateness of relate to the reporting framework (UK-adopted IAS and
adopting the going concern basis of accounting and any EU IFRS, the Companies Act 2006 and the UK Corporate
material uncertainties identified set out on page 297; Governance Code, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)
• Directors’ explanation as to its assessment of the Listing Rules, the Main Board Listing Rules of the Hong Kong
Company’s prospects, the period this assessment covers Stock Exchange), regulations and supervisory requirements
and why the period is appropriate set out on pages 45 to 46; of the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA), FRC, FCA and
other overseas regulatory requirements, including but not
• Director’s statement on whether it has a reasonable
limited to regulations in its major markets such as Mainland
expectation that the Group will be able to continue in
China, Hong Kong, India, Republic of Korea, Singapore, the
operation and meets its liabilities set out on page 46;
United Arab Emirates, the United States of America, and
• Directors’ statement on fair, balanced and understandable the relevant tax compliance regulations in the jurisdictions
set out on page 192; in which the Group operates. In addition, we concluded that
• Board’s confirmation that it has carried out a robust there are certain significant laws and regulations that may
assessment of the emerging and principal risks set out on have an effect on the determination of the amounts and
page 187; disclosures in the financial statements and those laws and
• The section of the annual report that describes the review regulations relating to regulatory capital and liquidity,
of effectiveness of risk management and internal control conduct, financial crime including anti-money laundering,
systems set out on pages 187 to 188; and sanctions and market abuse, recognising the financial and
regulated nature of the Group’s activities.
• The section describing the work of the audit committee set
out on pages 123 to 128.
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 295
Financial
statements
Notes to the financial statements
1. Accounting policies
Statement of compliance Significant accounting estimates and critical judgements
The Group financial statements consolidate Standard • Expected credit loss calculations (Note 8)
Chartered PLC (the Company) and its subsidiaries (together • Financial instruments measured at fair value (Note 13)
referred to as the Group) and equity account the Group’s
• Investments in subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures
interests in associates and jointly controlled entities.
and associates – China Bohai associate accounting and
The parent company financial statements present
impairment analysis (Note 32)
information about the Company as a separate entity.
Significant accounting estimates and judgements
The Group financial statements have been prepared in
represent those items which have a significant risk of
accordance with UK-adopted international accounting
causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts
standards and International Financial Reporting Standards
of assets and liabilities within the next year. Significant
(IFRS) (Accounting Standards) as adopted by the European
accounting estimates and judgements are:
Union (EU IFRS). The Company financial statements
have been prepared in accordance with UK-adopted
Other areas of accounting estimate and judgement
international accounting standards as applied in
Other areas of accounting estimate and judgement do not
conformity with section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
meet the definition under IAS 1 of significant accounting
The financial statements have been prepared in
estimates or critical accounting judgements, but the
accordance with the requirements of the Companies
recognition of certain material assets and liabilities are
Act 2006.
based on assumptions and/or are subject to long-term
There are no significant differences between UK-adopted uncertainties. The other areas of accounting estimate and
international accounting standards and EU IFRS. judgement are:
The following parts of the Risk review and Capital review • Taxation (Note 10)
form part of these financial statements:
• Goodwill and intangible assets - Goodwill impairment
a) Risk review: Disclosures marked as ‘audited’ from the and Capitalisation of internally generated software
start of the Credit Risk section (page 207) to the end of intangibles (Note 9 and Note 17)
Other principal risks in the same section (page 255). • Provisions for liabilities and charges – Other provisions
b) Capital review: Tables marked as ‘audited’ from the start (Note 24)
of ‘CRD Capital base’ to the end of ‘Movement in total • Legal and regulatory matters (Note 26)
capital’, excluding ‘Total risk-weighted assets’ (pages 271
• Retirement benefit obligations (Note 30)
to 272).
• Share-based payments (Note 31)
Basis of preparation
Climate change impact on the Group’s balance sheet
The consolidated and Company financial statements have
been prepared on a going concern basis and under the Climate, and the impact of climate on the Group’s
historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation balance sheet is considered as an area which can
of cash-settled share-based payments, fair value through impact accounting estimates and judgments through
other comprehensive income, and financial assets and the uncertainty of future events and the impact of
liabilities (including derivatives) at fair value through profit that uncertainty on the Group’s assets and liabilities.
or loss. However, the Group has concluded that Climate Change
does not have a financially material impact at this time.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in
United States dollars ($), being the presentation currency The Group has assessed the impact of climate risk on the
of the Group and functional currency of the Company, and financial report. This is set out within the Sustainability
all values are rounded to the nearest million dollars, except Overview and Sustainability Review chapter which
when otherwise indicated. incorporate the Group’s Climate-related Financial
Disclosures which align with the recommendations from
Significant and other accounting estimates and the Task Force for Climate related Financial Disclosures
judgement (TCFD). Further risk disclosure has been provided in the
In determining the carrying amounts of certain assets and Principal Risks and Uncertainties section of the Annual
liabilities, the Group makes assumptions of the effects of Report where the Group has described how it manages
uncertain future events on those assets and liabilities climate risk, which is integrated across relevant Principal
at the balance sheet date. The Group’s estimates and Risk Types (PRTs) and is managed via the ESGR Risk
assumptions are based on historical experience and Type framework.
expectation of future events and are reviewed periodically. The areas of impact where judgements and the use of
Further information about key assumptions concerning estimates have been applied were credit risk and the
the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty impact on lending portfolios; ESG features within issued
and judgement, are set out in the relevant disclosure notes loans and bonds; physical risk on our mortgage lending
for the areas set out under the relevant headings below: portfolio; and the corporate plan, in respect of which
forward looking cash flows impact the recoverability of
certain assets, including of goodwill, deferred tax assets
and investments in subsidiary undertakings.
Financial statements Notes to the financial statements
1. Accounting policies continued
Transition risk, as our clients move to lower carbon emitting a decreasing carbon cost. For Coal Mining and Oil and Gas,
revenues, (either by virtue of legislation or changing end these sectors have absolute targets which represent a
customer preference) is considered with reference to client decreasing carbon budget. Coal Mining is an immaterial
transition pathways and manifests over a longer term than book, while for Oil and Gas lending is being actively
the maturity of the loan book (up to 2050). The setting of monitored towards lower carbon counterparties and
net zero targets, which as of this annual report covers our technologies. The corporate plan is shorter term than many
12 highest emitting sectors, manages transition risk. of the climate scenario outlooks but seeks to capture the
Net zero targets enable the portfolio managers to work nearer term performance as required by recoverability
with our clients on their transition and deploy capital to models. The Group has for the third time in the 2025
those clients which are engaged and have adequate corporate plan included anticipated credit impairment
transition pathways. All of these actions manage the charges, now across seven sectors (Oil and Gas, Metals
Group’s transition risk and engage clients before transition and Mining, Power, and Transport, along with Cement,
risk manifests itself into credit losses. We have also Automobile, and Commercial Real Estate which have been
evaluated transition risk to achieve net zero in our newly added this year). This addition of credit impairment
own operations. has not in itself, materially impacted the recoverability of
assets supported by discounted cash flow models (such as
While physical risk is included within the majority of our
Value in Use) which utilise the Corporate plan.
mortgage lending decisions, we have applied scenario
analysis against the pathways of different temperature The Group has progressively strengthened its scenario
outcomes to examine exposure concentration risk in key analysis capabilities with the modelling of Climate Risk
markets subject to the extreme risk of floods and storms to impact over a 30-year period across multiple dimensions
assess the acute physical risk, and sea level rise to assess including scenario data and pathways across CIB and WRB
the chronic physical risk. Stranded assets analysis was portfolios. While we have taken the first step in our journey
conducted for residential mortgages to identify properties to transition from our reliance on vendor models to in-house
that are expected to become uninhabitable and/or capabilities, challenges underpin the scenario analysis,
unusable due to increased frequency and intensity of such as reliance on nascent methodologies, dependencies
physical risk events from acute and chronic risks. We assess on first generation models and data limitations.
the physical risk vulnerabilities of our existing sites on a Notwithstanding these challenges, our work to date,
regular basis and for new sites during the onboarding using certain assumptions and proxies, indicates that our
process. Additionally, we assess the impact of climate risk business is resilient to all Network of Central Banks and
on the classification of financial instruments under IFRS 9, Supervisors for Greening the Financial System (NGFS) and
when Environmental, Social or Governance (ESG) triggers bespoke scenarios that were explored.
may affect the cash flows received by the Group under the
The Group, although acknowledging the limitations of
contractual terms of the instrument.
current data available, increasing sophistication of models
The ESGR Risk team has performed a quantitative evolving and nascent nature of climate impacts on internal
assessment of the impact of climate risk on the IFRS 9 and client assets, considers Climate Risk to have limited
ECL provision. This assessment has been performed across quantitative impact in the immediate term and as a
both the CIB and WRB portfolios. The Climate risk impact longer-term risk is expected to be addressed through its
assessment on IFRS 9 business as usual ECL has been business strategy and financial planning as the Group
conducted based on newly developed and enhanced implements its net zero journey.
internal climate risk models for corporates across six
priority sectors (Oil and Gas, Power, Steel, Mining, Shipping, IFRS and Hong Kong accounting requirements
and Automotive), one Generic model for the remaining As required by the Hong Kong Listing Rules, an
corporate sectors and Sovereigns, while the top-down explanation of the differences in accounting practices
approach developed in 2022 was used for the remaining between UK-adopted IFRS and Hong Kong Financial
portfolios. The impact assessment, which primarily focused Reporting Standards is required to be disclosed. There
on transition risk, resulted in only a marginal ECL increase would be no significant differences had these accounts
across CIB and WRB, which has been recorded as a been prepared in accordance with Hong Kong Financial
management overlay for the 2024 year end. Reporting Standards.
The Group’s corporate plan has a 5 year outlook and Standard Chartered PLC has fully complied with the
considers the highest emitting sectors the Group finances. new treasury share regime introduced under the revised
The majority of the Group sector targets are production/ Hong Kong Listing Rules from 11 June 2024 onwards and
physical intensities which allow continued levels of will continue to comply with the new regime.
lending as long as the products the client produce have
296 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 351
Financial
statements
28. Share capital, other equity instruments and reserves continued
Own shares
The 2004 Employee Benefit Trust (2004 Trust) is used in conjunction with the Group’s employee share schemes and other
employee share-based payments (such as upfront shares and salary shares). Computershare Trustees (Jersey) Limited is the
trustee of the 2004 Trust. Group companies fund the 2004 Trust from time to time to enable the trustees to acquire shares in
Standard Chartered PLC to satisfy these arrangements.
Details of the shares purchased and held by the 2004 Trust are set out below.
2004 Trust
2024 2023
Shares purchased during the period 19,604,557 29,069,539
Market price of shares purchased ($million) 223 237
Shares held at the end of the period 17,589,987 28,095,542
Maximum number of shares held during the period 28,085,688 28,893,930
Except as disclosed, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has bought, sold or redeemed any securities of the
Company listed on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, on another exchange, by private arrangement, or by way
of a general offer during the period.
Dividend waivers
The trustees of the 2004 Trust, which holds ordinary shares in Standard Chartered PLC in connection with the operation of its
employee share plans, waive any dividend on the balance of ordinary shares that have not been allocated to employees,
except for 0.01p per share.
Changes in share capital and other equity instruments of Standard Chartered PLC subsidiaries
The table below details the transactions in equity instruments (including convertible and hybrid instruments) of the Group’s
subsidiaries, including issuances, conversions, redemptions, purchase or cancellation. This is required under the Hong Kong
Listing requirements, appendix D2 paragraph 10.
Description of Issued/(redeemed) Issued/(redeemed)
Name Shares Shares capital
Standard Chartered Bank Nigeria Limited NGN1.00 Ordinary 8,581,235,698 NGN11,081,235,698
Furaha Finserve Uganda Limited USD1.00 Ordinary 199,500 USD199,500
SCV Research and Development Pvt. Ltd. INR10.00 Ordinary 10,000 INR100,000
Furaha Holding Ltd USD1.00 Ordinary 6,500,000 USD6,500,000
Qatalyst Pte. Ltd. USD1.00 Ordinary 1,099,999 USD1,099,999
Standard Chartered I H Limited USD1.00 Ordinary 52,086,333 USD 52,086,333
Standard Chartered Strategic Investments Limited USD1.00 Ordinary 16,086,333 USD 16,086,333
Standard Chartered Capital Limited INR10.00 Equity 32,269,750 INR322,697,500
SC Ventures Holdings Limited USD1.00 Ordinary 59,386,000 USD 59,386,000
Standard Chartered Holdings Limited USD2.00 Ordinary 25,043,166 USD 50,086,332
Standard Chartered Luxembourg S.A. EUR1.00 Ordinary 125,000 EUR125,000
Mox Bank Limited HKD Ordinary 54,740,000 HKD547,400,000
Standard Chartered Research and Technology India Private Limited INR10 Equity Class – A 10,821,311 INR108,213,110
myZoi Financial Inclusion Technologies LLC AED1.00 Ordinary 25,000,000 AED25,000,000
Zodia Holdings Limited USD1.00 A Ordinary 18,000,000 USD18,000,000
Audax Financial Technology Pte. Ltd USD Ordinary-A 8,500,000 USD8,500,000
Trust Bank Singapore Limited SGD Ordinary 185,000,000 SGD185,000,000
Zodia Markets Holdings Limited USD1.00 Ordinary 5,580 USD 5,580
Letsbloom Pte. Ltd. USD Ordinary-A 9,406,219 USD9,406,219
Zodia Custody (Ireland) Limited USD1.00 Ordinary 1,000,000 USD1,000,000
SCV Research and Development Pte. Ltd. USD Ordinary-A' 11,440,850 USD11,440,850
SCV Master Holding Company Pte. Ltd. USD Ordinary 63,299,999 USD63,299,999
Financial Inclusion Technologies Ltd USD Ordinary-A 6,700,000 USD6,700,000
Appro Onboarding Solutions FZ-LLC AED1,000 Ordinary 21,670 AED21,670,000
Solv-India Pte. Ltd. USD Ordinary 38,963,752 USD38,963,752
Solvezy Technology Kenya Limited KES1,000.00 Ordinary 196,448 KES196,448,000
Tawi Fresh Kenya Limited KES1,000.00 Ordinary 454,890 KES454,890,000
Libeara Pte. Ltd. USD Ordinary 10,258,400 USD10,258,400
CashEnable Pte. Ltd. USD Ordinary-A 9,300,000 USD9,300,000
Solvezy Technology Ghana Ltd GHS Ordinary 18,000,441 GHS18,000,441
Libeara (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. USD Ordinary 10,258,400 USD10,258,400
Standard Chartered Securities (Africa) Holdings Limited USD1.00 Ordinary (8,002,228) USD(8,002,228)
Banco Standard Chartered en Liquidacion USD75.133 Ordinary (133,930) USD(10,062,563)
Please see Note 22 Debt securities in issue for issuances and redemptions of senior notes.
Please see Note 27 Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds for issuance and redemptions of subordinated liabilities
and AT1 securities.
Please see Note 40 Related undertakings of the Group for subsidiaries liquidated, dissolved or sold during the year.
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 375
Financial
statements
40. Related undertakings of the Group continued Proportion of
shares held
Subsidiary Undertakings continued Name (%) Footnotes
Standard Chartered Private Equity
Proportion of
shares held (Singapore) Pte. Ltdv 100 46
Name (%) Footnotes Standard Chartered Real Estate
Standard Chartered Investment Services Investment Holdings (Singapore) Private
Limitedv 100 32 Limitedv 100 46
Standard Chartered Bank Kenya Limitedi 74.318; 100J 32 Raffles Nominees (Pte.) Limitedi 100 47
Standard Chartered Securities (Kenya) SCTS Capital Pte. Ltdi 100 48
Limitedi 100 32 SCTS Management Pte. Ltd.i 100 48
Standard Chartered Financial Services Standard Chartered Bank (Singapore) 100A, B, C, U, V,
Limitedi 100 32 Limitedi W 48
Standard Chartered Kenya Nominees Standard Chartered Trust (Singapore)
Limitedi 100 32 Limitedx 100 48
Tawi Fresh Kenya Limitediv 100 32 Standard Chartered Holdings (Singapore)
Standard Chartered Metropolitan Private Limitedv 100 48
Holdings SALv 99.9A 33 Standard Chartered Nominees
Cartaban (Malaya) Nominees Sdn (Singapore) Pte Ltdi 100 48
Berhadi 100 34 Audax Financial Technology Pte. Ltdiv 100A 90
Cartaban Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhdi 100 34 CashEnable Pte. Ltd.iv 100A 90
Cartaban Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhdi 100 34 Letsbloom Pte. Ltd.iv 100A 90
Golden Maestro Sdn Bhdv 100 34 Libeara (Singapore) Pte. Ltd.iv 100 90
Price Solutions Sdn Bhdi 100 34 Libeara Pte. Ltd.v 100 90
SCBMB Trustee Berhadx 100 34 SCV Research and Development Pte. Ltd.iv 100A 90
Standard Chartered Bank Malaysia Zodia Custody (Singapore) Pte. Ltd.iv 100 46
Berhadi 100; 100S 34
Pegasus Dealmaking Pte. Ltd.iv 100 46
Standard Chartered Saadiq Berhadi 100 34
Power2SME Pte. Ltd.v 90.6 90
Resolution Alliance Sdn Bhdv 91 35
SCV Master Holding Company Pte. Ltd.v 100 46
Standard Chartered Global Business
Solv-India Pte. Ltd.v 100 90
Services Sdn Bhdix 100 115
Trust Bank Singapore Limitedi 60 130
Assembly Payments Malaysia Sdn. Bhd.iv 100 37 , 158
CurrencyFair (Singapore) Pte.Ltdiv 100 49 , 158
Standard Chartered Bank (Mauritius)
Assembly Payments SGP Pte. Ltd.iv 100 50 , 158
Limitedi 100 38
Assembly Payments Pte. Ltd.iv 100; 100J 50 , 158
Standard Chartered Private Equity
(Mauritius) Limitedi 100 113 Standard Chartered Nominees South
Africa Proprietary Limited (RF)i 100 52
Standard Chartered Private Equity
(Mauritius) II Limitedi 100 113 Promisepay (PTY) Ltdiv 100 137 , 158
Standard Chartered Private Equity Standard Chartered Bank Tanzania
(Mauritius) lll Limitedi 100 113 Limitedi 100; 100J 53
Subcontinental Equities Limitedv 100 39 Standard Chartered Tanzania Nominees
Limitedi 100 53
Actis Treit Holdings (Mauritius) Limitedv 62.001A;
62.001B 149 , 158 Standard Chartered Bank (Thai) Public
Company Limitedi 99.871 54
Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limitedi 70.21 40
Standard Chartered Yatirim Bankasi Turk
Standard Chartered Holdings (Africa) B.V.v 100 1 , 161
Anonim Sirketi 100 55
Standard Chartered Holdings (Asia
Standard Chartered Bank Uganda
Pacific) B.V.v 100 1 , 161
Limitedi 100 56
Standard Chartered Holdings
Furaha Finserve Uganda Limitedi 100 57
(International) B.V.v 100 1 , 161
Appro Onboarding Solutions FZ-LLCiv 100 58
Standard Chartered MB Holdings B.V.v 100 1 , 161
Financial Inclusion Technologies Ltdv 100A 94
PromisePay Limitediv 100 41 , 158
Furaha Holding Ltdv 100; 100B 59
Standard Chartered Bank Nigeria Limitedi 100; 100N,T 42
myZoi Financial Inclusion Technologies
Standard Chartered Capital & Advisory
LLCiv 100 61
Nigeria Limitedi 100 42
Standard Chartered Bank International
Standard Chartered Nominees (Nigeria)
(Americas) Limitedi 100 111
Limitedi 100 42
Standard Chartered Holdings Inc.v 100 62
Standard Chartered Bank (Pakistan)
Limitedi 98.986 43 Standard Chartered Securities (North
America) LLCi 100AA 62
Standard Chartered Group Services,
Manila Incorporatedix 100 44 CurrencyFair (USA) Inciv 100AC 64 , 158
Standard Chartered Global Business Standard Chartered Trade Services
Services spółka z ograniczoną Corporationi 100 89
odpowiedzialnościąix 100 45 Standard Chartered Bank (Vietnam)
Standard Chartered Capital (Saudi Limitedi 100X 65
Arabia)i 100 116 Sky Harmony Holdings Limitedv 100 118
Actis Treit Holdings No.1 (Singapore) Standard Chartered Bank Zambia Plci 90 119
Private Limitedv 100 156 Standard Chartered Zambia Securities
Actis Treit Holdings No.2 (Singapore) Services Nominees Limitedi 100 138
Private Limitedv 100 156 Stanchart Nominees Limitedi 100 1 , 164
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 393
Supplementary
information
Supplementary sustainability information
Sustainability aspirations
1. Mobilise sustainable finance
Pillar Key performance indicators Period Status 2024 progress update
Sustainable Mobilise $300 billion in sustainable 2021– Mobilised $121 billion between January 2021 and
Finance finance¹ 2030 September 2024. Strong progress was made in 2024.
We anticipate that mobilisation of sustainable finance
will not be linear and will likely increase over time as
the market matures and we help our clients transition.
We remain on track for our overall target in 2030.
2. Operationalise interim 2030 financed emissions targets to meet our 2050 net zero ambition
Pillar Key performance indicators Period Status 2024 progress update
Operations Net zero in our operations 2019– We reduced our Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 28% during
(Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions) 2025 2024 to 24,968 tCOe. Our real estate (net internal area2)
2
decreased by 3.4% during that time.
The Group purchased and retired carbon credits for
our residual operational Scope 1 and 2 emissions.
We remain on track for our overall 2025 target.
Increase renewable energy sourcing 2022– 77% of our electricity came from renewable sources across
to 100% by 2025 (RE100 compliant) 2025 our portfolio after matching consumption with renewable
energy certificates (RECs).
We continue to work towards purchasing renewable
energy in every country possible and are striving to meet
our 100% RE100 target by 2025. However, due to market
constraints and lack of renewable energy options in some
markets within Africa and the Middle East (for example,
Bahrain, Botswana, Ghana, Iraq and Tanzania), we may
not be able to meet our RE100 aspiration. Despite this,
we remain committed to the initiative, however,
acknowledging that market constraints may limit our
ability to achieve these goals in the short/mid-term,
financial or other constraints may reasonably prevent the
Group from taking all available steps to meet the target.
Divert 90% of waste from landfill 2020– In 2024, we reduced our overall waste generated by 18%
by 2030 2030 and achieved 61% avoidance of landfill (up from 52%
in 2023).
Suppliers Direct at least 50% of our total spend3 2023– New KPI added on supplier net zero engagement targets
with suppliers who have set science- 2027 to enable the Group to support vendors’ development
based emissions reduction targets of sustainability goals and allow the Group to be more
transparent on emissions.
Financed Achieve 2030 interim financed 2020/ Progress on our net zero sector targets remains on
Emissions emissions reduction in our highest 2021– track with reductions in emissions seen in all sectors
emitting sectors4 2030 year–on–year.
• -29% in oil and gas (absolute) from Reporting against our aviation sector target was resumed
a 2020 baseline during the year following the sale of the aircraft leasing
• -46–67% in power (production business and the majority of the lending portfolio during
intensity) from a 2021 baseline the prior period.
• -22–32% in steel (production intensity) For further details on our progress towards our interim net
from a 2021 baseline zero targets please refer to page 80.
• -85% emissions reduction in
thermal coal mining (absolute)
from a 2020 baseline
• Maintain a 1.5°C compliant
production–intensity in aluminum
from a 2021 baseline
• Reduce our alignment delta in
shipping to 0% from a 2021 baseline
• -44–63% in automotive
manufacturers (physical intensity)
from a 2021 baseline
• -22% in cement (production intensity)
from a 2021 baseline
Supplementary information Supplementary sustainability information
2. Operationalise interim 2030 financed emissions targets to meet our 2050 net zero ambition
Pillar Key performance indicators Period Status 2024 progress update
• -47–74% in commercial real estate
(production intensity) from a
2021 baseline
• 33% reduction in aviation sector
physical intensity from a 2021 baseline
• -15-23% in residential mortgages
(production intensity) from a
2021 baseline
Set and disclose 2030 financed 2021– Targets have been set for agriculture, please refer to
emissions targets for high-emitting 2024 page 80 for more information.
and carbon-intensive sectors in line
with Net-Zero Banking Alliance
(NZBA) guidelines:
• 2024: Develop 2030 target for
agriculture to be communicated
in our 2024 Annual Report
Facilitated Achieve 2030 interim facilitated 2021– As part of our net zero roadmap and as announced at
Emissions emissions reduction in our highest 2030 our 2024 AGM, the Group has committed to set a
emitting sector: facilitated emissions target. We have fulfilled this
• -27% in oil and gas (absolute) from commitment via setting a standalone absolute emission
a 2021 baseline facilitated target for oil and gas, which currently makes up
the majority of emissions within our facilitation portfolio.
Please refer to page 88 for more information.
1 We define mobilisation of sustainable finance as any investment or financial service provided to clients that supports: (i) the preservation and/or improvement of
biodiversity, nature or the environment; (ii) the long-term avoidance/decrease of GHG emissions, including the alignment of a client’s business and operations
with a 1.5°C trajectory (known as transition finance); (iii) a social purpose; or (iv) incentivises our clients to meet their own sustainability objectives (known as
sustainability-linked finance). It is a measure of total capital mobilised and considers the total value being committed facilities provided.
2 The definition used for measuring real estate is the net internal area (NIA) of our premises. Because the Group’s portfolio is constantly changing, divesting and
investing according to business needs, NIA often varies between the start and end of an environmental year. Therefore, the NIA of a site is calculated by taking
the monthly average area (in square metres) over the entire environmental year. It does not consider the area that falls under ATM, bin collection points, cash
vault, warehouse, closed branch space and vacant space. NIA excludes common areas, such as building corridors, common toilets, lift lobbies, lift shafts, lift motor
rooms, fire escape staircase, common rises, plant rooms, cleaner’s room, common pantries, telecommunications equipment rooms and fuel stores.
3 Spend includes Scope 3, Category 1: Purchased Goods and Services and Capital Goods suppliers excluding non-addressable spend. Addressable spend is defined
as external costs incurred by Standard Chartered in the normal course of business where Supply Chain Management has influence over where the spend is
placed. It excludes costs such as government and brokerage fees, rates and taxes and employee expenses. It also excludes any Category 1 co-location data
centres which are calculated on energy use and reported separately under Scope 3.
4 Refer to the Group’s ‘Net Zero Methodological White Paper – The journey continues’ via sc.com/sustainabilitylibrary and our Position Statements available at
sc.com/positionstatements
3. Enhance and deepen leadership within the sustainability ecosystem
Pillar Key performance indicators Period Status 2024 progress update
Market Partnering to lead the fight against Ongoing Throughout 2024 the Group’s commitment to leading the
Integrity, financial crimes: fight against financial crime was fostered through strong
Trust, • Participating in public–private industry and regulatory collaboration.
Conduct and partnerships to contribute to The Group continued positive engagement with
Compliance understanding most recent international and regional standard-setters, such as
developments, share intelligence the Financial Action Task Force and Wolfsberg Group.
and good practices Across our geographic footprint we work in partnership
• Contribute to developing typologies with regulators and industry associations to inform
and red flags for financial flows and reform financial crime legislation and regulation.
The Group promotes effective financial crime compliance
and risk identification through participation at financial
crime conferences as speakers, panelists and subject
matter experts. Public–private partnerships to tackle
financial crime remain a key focus of the Group, with
ongoing participation to evolve existing partnerships
and provide support to countries and bodies seeking to
establish new information-sharing arrangements.
Develop and deliver a targeted 2022– The Group continued to proactively engage in policy
outreach programme, including through 2024 discussions via a number of major international and
key international platforms, aimed at regional platforms and conferences. Through these
safely and transparently reducing activities, the Group sought to promote robust policy
barriers to capital mobilisation for and regulatory frameworks to ensure the credibility
sustainable development and integrity of sustainable finance (including transition
finance), and to support private capital mobilisation for
sustainable development.
Execution of at least 12 transactions by 2025– With the establishment of the Innovation Hubs, the KPI
2027 which are aligned with Standard 2027 was introduced to drive deal incubation and ensure
Chartered’s sustainability themed impactful transactions that advance the sustainability
Innovation Hubs ecosystem in our markets. Please refer to pages 66-68
for more information on the Innovation Hubs.
394 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 395
Supplementary
information
4. Drive social impact with our clients and communities
Pillar Key performance indicators Period Status 2024 progress update
People We aspire to have 35 per cent 2016– Women leadership representation at the end of 2024 was
representation5 of women at a global 2025 33.1%. We remain on track for our overall target in 2025.
senior level6 by end of 2025
Increase our Culture of Inclusion score 2020– Our Inclusion Index score remains high with a score of
to 84.5%7 2024 82.1% in 2024.
Though colleague sentiment dropped marginally in the
2024 annual My Voice survey (from 83.2% in 2023), the
experience of working at the bank remains a broadly
positive one. More colleagues feel they can exercise their
judgement when making decisions. Most feel treated with
respect, combined with the ability to choose a reasonable
balance between personal and work life and having
access to tools to execute their job. While the Group
missed its aspirational 2024 Inclusion Index target of
84.5%, there has been a +5.14ppt overall increase in the
Inclusion Index since 2018.
Grow our employee My Voice score to 2022– The 2024 My Voice data confirms the 2024 target of 88%
the question “The way we operate 2024 was not met. There was a 3ppt drop from 86% in 2023 to
day-to-day is aligned with our 83% in 2024.
sustainability strategy” from 2021 Despite the My Voice sentiment causing us to miss our
baseline of 84% to 88% target, the successes we have achieved in meeting all
of our ambitious external sustainability commitments to
date serve as proof points that we are executing on our
sustainability strategy.
Communities Invest 0.75% of prior-year operating Ongoing Achieved 1.6% PYOP, refer to page 92 for additional
profit (PYOP) in our communities details.
Enable and support a total of 140,000 2024– New KPI added to reflect the new community impact
decent jobs8 through the following 2030 strategy and replace the communities KPIs that were
breakdown: achieved in 2023.
• 70,000 jobs accessed by young
female participants employment9
by 2030
• 70,000 direct jobs10 enabled by
supported microbusinesses by 2030
5 Subject to local legal requirements
6 Senior level refers to roles that are at least at the level of Executive Director (Band 4) and Managing Directors (Band 3) as of 31 December of each reporting year.
7 The ‘Culture of Inclusion’ score is based on several questions in the My Voice employee engagement survey that relate to different concepts of inclusion, including
being respected and valued for contributions, being heard and involved in decisions, career development and opportunities, and work life balance.
8 Decent jobs/employment: comprise formal employment and self-employment. ‘Decent’ aligns with the International Labour Organization (ILO) definition, but in
recognition of the challenges in many markets to satisfy every criteria for ‘decent’, our Futuremakers initiative counts those participants who have met minimum
wage plus at least two additional ILO criteria.
9 Young female participants remain in decent employment six months post intervention.
10 Direct jobs comprise of paid employment opportunities (direct employees, active associates, contractors, support/gig workers, and the entrepreneurs themselves)
directly created by the supported microbusinesses. These may be part-time or full-time, with each job accounted for as a single unit. This KPI is based on actual
data collated from project alumni over the seven year period, estimates based on empirical research, and ex-post project evaluations.
Concluded in the year Ongoing aspirations
Achieved Not achieved On track Not on track
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 397
Supplementary
information
Taxation The factors include (but are not limited to): changes in global,
No tax is currently withheld from payments of dividends by political, economic, business, competitive and market forces or
Standard Chartered PLC. Shareholders and prospective conditions, or in future exchange and interest rates; changes
purchasers should consult an appropriate independent in environmental, geopolitical, social or physical risks; legal,
professional adviser regarding the tax consequences of an regulatory and policy developments, including regulatory
investment in shares in light of their particular circumstances, measures addressing climate change and broader
including the effect of any national, state or local laws. sustainability-related issues; the development of standards
and interpretations, including evolving requirements and
practices in ESG reporting; the ability of the Group, together
Chinese translation
with governments and other stakeholders to measure,
If you would like a Chinese language version of the 2024
manage, and mitigate the impacts of climate change and
Annual Report, please contact Computershare Hong Kong
broader sustainability-related issues effectively; risks arising
Investor Services Limited, 17M Floor, Hopewell Centre, 183
out of health crises and pandemics; risks of cyber-attacks,
Queen’s Road East, Wan Chai, Hong Kong.
data, information or security breaches or technology failures
二〇二四年年報之中文譯本可向香港中央證券登記有限公司索取, involving the Group; changes in tax rates or policy; future
地址：香港灣仔皇后大道東183號合和中心17M樓。 business combinations or dispositions; and other factors
specific to the Group, including those identified in this Annual
Shareholders on the Hong Kong branch register who have
Report and financial statements of the Group. To the extent
asked to receive corporate communications in either
that any forward-looking statements contained in this
Chinese or English can change this election by contacting
document are based on past or current trends and/or
Computershare. If there is a dispute between any translation
activities of the Group, they should not be taken as a
and the English version of this Annual Report, the English text
representation that such trends or activities will continue
shall prevail.
in the future.
Electronic communications No statement in this document is intended to be, nor should
be interpreted as, a profit forecast or to imply that the
If you hold your shares on the UK register and in future you
earnings of the Group for the current year or future years
would like to receive the Annual Report electronically rather
will necessarily match or exceed the historical or published
than by post, please register online at: investorcentre.co.uk.
earnings of the Group. Each forward-looking statement
Click on ‘register now’ and follow the instructions. You will need
speaks only as of the date that it is made. Except as required
to have your Shareholder or ShareCare reference number to
by any applicable laws or regulations, the Group expressly
hand. You can find this on your share certificate or ShareCare
disclaims any obligation to revise or update any forward-
statement. Once you have registered and confirmed your
looking statement contained within this document, regardless
email communication preference, you will receive future
of whether those statements are affected as a result of new
notifications via email enabling you to submit your proxy vote
information, future events or otherwise.
online. In addition, as a member of Investor Centre, you will be
able to manage your shareholding online and change your Please refer to this Annual Report and the financial
bank mandate or address information. statements of the Group for a discussion of certain of the
risks and factors that could adversely impact the Group’s
Important notices actual results, and cause its plans and objectives, to
differ materially from those expressed or implied in any
Forward-looking statements forward looking statements.
The information included in this document may contain
‘forward-looking statements’ based upon current Non-IFRS performance measures and
expectations or beliefs as well as statements formulated alternative performance measures
with assumptions about future events. Forward-looking
The Group financial statements have been prepared in
statements include, without limitation, projections, estimates,
accordance with UK-adopted international accounting
commitments, plans, approaches, ambitions and targets
standards and International Financial Reporting Standards
(including, without limitation, ESG commitments, ambitions
(IFRS) as adopted by the European Union. Standard
and targets). Forward-looking statements often use words
Chartered PLC’s financial statements have been prepared
such as ‘may’, ‘could’, ‘will’, ‘expect’, ‘intend’, ‘estimate’,
in accordance with UK-adopted international accounting
‘anticipate’, ‘believe’, ‘plan’, ‘seek’, ‘aim’, ‘continue’ or other
standards (IAS) as applied in conformity with section 408
words of similar meaning to any of the foregoing. Forward-
of the Companies Act 2006. This document may contain
looking statements may also (or additionally) be identified
financial measures and ratios not specifically defined under
by the fact that they do not relate only to historical or
IFRS or IAS and/or alternative performance measures as
current facts.
defined in the European Securities and Market Authority
By their very nature, forward-looking statements are subject guidelines. Such measures may exclude certain items
to known and unknown risks and uncertainties and other which management believes are not representative of the
factors that could cause actual results, and the Group’s plans underlying performance of the business and which distort
and objectives, to differ materially from those expressed or period-on-period comparison. These measures are not a
implied in the forward-looking statements. Readers should substitute for IAS or IFRS measures and are based on a
not place reliance on, and are cautioned about relying on, number of assumptions that are subject to uncertainties
any forward-looking statements. and change. Please refer to this Annual Report and the
financial statements of the Group for further information,
There are several factors which could cause the Group’s actual
including reconciliations between the underlying and
results and its plans and objectives to differ materially from
reported measures.
those expressed or implied in forward-looking statements.
Supplementary information Shareholder information
Financial instruments x. while the Group bears primary responsibility for the
Nothing in this document shall constitute, in any jurisdiction, information included in this document, it does not accept
an offer or solicitation to sell or purchase any securities or responsibility for the external input provided by any third
other financial instruments, nor shall it constitute a parties for the purposes of developing the information
recommendation or advice in respect of any securities or included in this document;
other financial instruments or any other matter. xi. the data contained in this document reflects available
information and estimates at the relevant time;
Basis of Preparation and Caution Regarding
xii. where the Group has used any methodology or tools
Data Limitations
developed by a third party, the application of the
This section is specifically relevant to, amongst others, methodology or tools (or consequences of its application)
the sustainability and climate models, calculations and shall not be interpreted as conflicting with any legal or
disclosures throughout this report. The information contained contractual obligations and such legal or contractual
in this document has been prepared on the following basis: obligations shall take precedence over the application
of the methodology or tools;
i. disclosures in the Strategic report, Financial review,
Sustainability review, Directors’ report, Risk review and xiii. where the Group has used any underlying data provided
Capital review and Supplementary information are or sourced by a third party, the use of the data shall not
unaudited unless otherwise stated; be interpreted as conflicting with any legal or contractual
obligations and such legal or contractual obligations shall
ii. all information, positions and statements set out in this
take precedence over the use of the data;
document are subject to change without notice;
xiv. this Important Notice is not limited in applicability to
iii. the information included in this document does not
those sections of the document where limitations to data,
constitute any investment, accounting, legal, regulatory
metrics and methodologies are identified and where this
or tax advice or an invitation or recommendation to enter
Important Notice is referenced. This Important Notice
into any transaction;
applies to the whole document;
iv. the information included in this document may have been
xv. further development of reporting, standards or other
repaired using models, methodologies and data which are
principles could impact the information included in this
subject to certain limitations. These limitations include: the
document or any metrics, data and targets included in
limited availability of reliable data, data gaps, and the
this document (it being noted that ESG reporting and
nascent nature of the methodologies and technologies
standards are subject to rapid change and development);
underpinning this data; the limited standardisation of
and
data (given, amongst other things, limited international
coordination on data and methodology standards); xvi. w hile all reasonable care has been taken in preparing the
and future uncertainty (due, amongst other things, information included in this document, neither the Group
to changing projections relating to technological nor any of its affiliates, directors, officers, employees or
development and global and regional laws, regulations agents make any representation or warranty as to its
and policies, and the current inability to make use of quality, accuracy or completeness, and they accept
strong historical data); no responsibility or liability for the contents of this
information, including any errors of fact, omission or
v. models, external data and methodologies used in
opinion expressed. You are advised to exercise your
information included in this document are or could be
own independent judgement (with the advice of your
subject to adjustment which is beyond our control;
professional advisers as necessary) with respect to the
vi. any opinions and estimates should be regarded as risks and consequences of any matter contained in
indicative, preliminary and for illustrative purposes only. this document.
Expected and actual outcomes may differ from those set
The Group, its affiliates, directors, officers, employees or
out in this document (as explained in the “Forward-looking
agents expressly disclaim any liability and responsibility
statements” section above);
for any decisions or actions which you may take and for any
vii. some of the related information appearing in this damage or losses you may suffer from your use of or reliance
document may have been obtained from public and other on the information contained in this document.
sources and, while the Group believes such information
Copyright in all materials, text, articles and information
to be reliable, it has not been independently verified by
contained in this document (other than third party materials,
the Group and no representation or warranty is made
text, articles and information) is the property of, and may only
by the Group as to its quality, completeness, accuracy,
be reproduced with permission of an authorised signatory of,
fitness for a particular purpose or noninfringement of
the Group.
such information;
Copyright in materials, text, articles and information created
viii. for the purposes of the information included in this
by third parties and the rights under copyright of such parties
document, a number of key judgements and assumptions
are hereby acknowledged. Copyright in all other materials not
have been made. It is possible that the assumptions
belonging to third parties and copyright in these materials as
drawn, and the judgement exercised may subsequently
a compilation vests and shall remain at all times copyright of
turn out to be inaccurate. The judgements and data
the Group and should not be reproduced or used except for
presented in this document are not a substitute for
business purposes on behalf of the Group or save with the
judgements and analysis made independently by
express prior written consent of an authorised signatory of
the reader;
the Group.
ix. any opinions or views of third parties expressed in this
All rights reserved.
document are those of the third parties identified, and not
of the Group, its affiliates, directors, officers, employees or
agents. By incorporating or referring to opinions and views
of third parties, the Group is not, in any way, endorsing or
supporting such opinions or views;
398 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Supplementary information Glossary
Counterparty credit risk CVA or Credit valuation Defined benefit obligation
The risk that a counterparty defaults adjustments The present value of expected future
before satisfying its obligations under An adjustment to the fair value of payments required to settle the
a derivative, a securities financing derivative contracts that reflects the obligations of a defined benefit scheme
transaction (SFT) or a similar contract. possibility that the counterparty may resulting from employee service.
default such that the Group would
CCF or Credit conversion factor not receive the full market value of Defined benefit scheme
An estimate of the amount the Group the contracts. Pension or other post-retirement
expects a customer to have drawn benefit scheme other than a defined
further on a facility limit at the point Customer accounts contribution scheme.
of default. This is either prescribed by Money deposited by all individuals
CRR or modelled by the bank. and companies which are not credit Defined contribution scheme
institutions including securities sold A pension or other post-retirement
CDS or Credit default swaps under repurchase agreement (see repo/ benefit scheme where the employer’s
A credit derivative is an arrangement reverse repo). Such funds are recorded obligation is limited to its contributions
whereby the credit risk of an asset (the as liabilities in the Group’s balance sheet to the fund.
reference asset) is transferred from the under customer accounts.
buyer to the seller of protection. A credit Delinquency
default swap is a contract where the Days past due A debt or other financial obligation
protection seller receives premium or One or more days that interest and/or is considered to be in a state of
interest-related payments in return for principal payments are overdue based delinquency when payments are
contracting to make payments to the on the contractual terms. overdue. Loans and advances are
protection buyer upon a defined credit considered to be delinquent when
event. Credit events normally include DVA or Debit valuation consecutive payments are missed.
bankruptcy, payment default on adjustment Also known as arrears.
a reference asset or assets, or
downgrades by a rating agency. An adjustment to the fair value of
Deposits by banks
derivative contracts that reflects the
Climate Risk Assessment (CRA) possibility that the Group may default Deposits by banks comprise amounts
and not pay the full market value of owed to other domestic or foreign credit
The CRA is an internal assessment contracts. institutions by the Group including
conducted on in-scope corporate clients securities sold under repo.
to identify climate risks, across Physical
Debt securities
and Transition risks, that may lead to
Diluted earnings per share (EPS)
additional credit risks for the Group. Debt securities are assets on the Group’s
The assessment is conducted across balance sheet and represent certificates Represents earnings divided by the
four sections, using Group’s in house of indebtedness of credit institutions, weighted average number of shares
methodology as well as client public public bodies or other undertakings that would have been outstanding
disclosures. The CRA produces a BRAG excluding those issued by central banks. assuming the conversion of all dilutive
potential ordinary shares.
score indicating the level of climate
risk of an entity and is supported by Debt securities in issue
Dividend per share
long-form analysis of the drivers of Debt securities in issue are transferable
this score. certificates of indebtedness of the Represents the entitlement of each
Group to the bearer of the certificate. shareholder in the share of the profits
Credit institutions These are liabilities of the Group and of the Company. Calculated in the
An institution whose business is to include certificates of deposits. lowest unit of currency in which the
shares are quoted.
receive deposits or other repayable
funds from the public and to grant Deferred tax asset
Early alert, purely and non-
credits for its own account. Income taxes recoverable in future
periods in respect of deductible purely precautionary
Credit risk mitigation temporary differences between the A borrower’s account which exhibits risks
Credit risk mitigation is a process to accounting and tax base of an asset or or potential weaknesses of a material
mitigate potential credit losses from any liability that will result in tax deductible nature requiring closer monitoring,
given account, customer or portfolio by amounts in future periods, the carry- supervision, or attention by
using a range of tools such as collateral, forward of tax losses or the carry- management. Weaknesses in such a
netting agreements, credit insurance, forward of unused tax credits. borrower’s account, if left uncorrected,
credit derivatives and guarantees. could result in deterioration of
Deferred tax liability repayment prospects and the likelihood
Credible Transition Plan (CTP) Income taxes payable in future periods of being downgraded to credit grade 12
A credible climate transition plan is a in respect of taxable temporary or worse. When an account is on early
time-bound, action plan that clearly differences between the accounting alert, it is classified as either purely
outlines how a company will invest in and tax base of an asset or liability precautionary or non-purely
or pivot existing assets, operations, that will result in taxable amounts in precautionary. A purely precautionary
and entire business model towards a future periods. account is one that exhibits early alert
characteristics, but these do not present
trajectory that aligns with the most
any imminent credit concern. If the
ambitious climate science. Default
symptoms present an imminent credit
Financial assets in default represent
concern, an account will be considered
those that are at least 90 days past
for classification as non-purely
due in respect of principal or interest
precautionary.
and/or where the assets are otherwise
considered to be unlikely to pay,
including those that are credit-impaired.
400 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 401
Supplementary
information
Effective tax rate ESG G-SIBs or Global Systemically
The tax on profit/ (losses) on ordinary Environmental, Social and Governance. Important Banks
activities as a percentage of profit/ Global banking financial institutions
(loss) on ordinary activities before FCA or Financial Conduct whose size, complexity and systemic
taxation. Authority interconnectedness mean that their
The Financial Conduct Authority distress or failure would cause significant
Encumbered assets regulates the conduct of financial firms disruption to the wider financial system
On-balance sheet assets pledged or and, for certain firms, prudential and economic activity. The list of
used as collateral in respect of certain standards in the UK. It has a strategic G-SIBs is assessed under a framework
of the Group’s liabilities. objective to ensure that the relevant established by the FSB and the BCBS.
markets function well. In the UK, the G-SIB framework is
EU or European Union implemented via the CRD and G-SIBs
are referred to as Global Systemically
The European Union (EU) is a political Facilitated Emissions
Important Institutions (G-SIIs).
and economic union of 27 member Facilitated emissions refer to the
states that are located primarily greenhouse gas emissions that result
G-SIB buffer
in Europe. from the facilitation of financial
transactions by financial institutions. A CET1 capital buffer which results from
Eurozone designation as a G-SIB. The G-SIB buffer
is between 1 per cent and 3.5 per cent,
Represents the 19 EU countries that Financed Emissions
depending on the allocation to one
have adopted the euro as their Financed emissions are the emissions
of five buckets based on the annual
common currency. attributed to a financial institution when
scoring. In the UK, the G-SIB buffer is
financing a client.
implemented via the CRD as Global
ECL or Expected credit loss
Systemically Important Institutions
Represents the present value of Forborne – not impaired loans (G-SII) buffer requirement.
expected cash shortfalls over the Loans where the contractual terms
residual term of a financial asset, have been modified due to financial Green and Sustainable
undrawn commitment or financial difficulties of the borrower, but the Product Framework
guarantee. This comprises ECL loan is not considered to be impaired.
generated by the models, management See ‘Forbearance’. Sets out underlying eligible qualifying
judgements and individually assessed themes and activities that may be
credit impairment provisions. Forbearance considered ESG .This has been
developed with the support of
Forbearance takes place when a
external experts, has been informed
Expected loss concession is made to the contractual
by industry and supervisory principles
The Group measure of anticipated terms of a loan in response to an
and standards such as the Green
loss for exposures captured under an obligor’s financial difficulties. The Group
Bond Principles and EU Taxonomy
internal ratings-based credit risk classifies such modified loans as either
for sustainable activities.
approach for capital adequacy ‘Forborne – not impaired loans’ or ‘Loans
calculations. It is measured as the subject to forbearance – impaired’.
Hong Kong regional hub
Group-modelled view of anticipated Once a loan is categorised as either of
loss based on probability of default, loss these, it will remain in one of these two Standard Chartered Bank (Hong Kong)
given default and exposure at default, categories until the loan matures or Limited and its subsidiaries including
with a one-year time horizon. satisfies the ‘curing’ conditions described the primary operating entities in China,
in Note 8 to the financial statements. Korea and Taiwan. Standard Chartered
PLC is the ultimate parent company
Exposures
Forborne – not impaired loans of Standard Chartered Bank (Hong
Credit exposures represent the amount
Kong) Limited.
lent to a customer, together with any Loans where the contractual terms
undrawn commitments. have been modified due to financial
Interest rate risk
difficulties of the borrower, but the
EAD or Exposure at default loan is not considered to be impaired. The risk of an adverse impact on the
See ‘Forbearance’. Group’s income statement due to
The estimation of the extent to which
changes in interest rates.
the Group may be exposed to a
Funded/unfunded exposures
customer or counterparty in the event of,
IRB or internal ratings-based
and at the time of, that counterparty’s Exposures where the notional amount
default. At default, the customer may of the transaction is funded or approach
not have drawn the loan fully or may unfunded. Represents exposures where Risk-weighting methodology in
already have repaid some of the a commitment to provide future funding accordance with the Basel Capital
principal, so that exposure is typically is made but funds have been released/ Accord where capital requirements
less than the approved loan limit. not released. are based on a firm’s own estimates
of prudential parameters.
ECAI or External Credit FVA or Funding valuation
Assessment Institution adjustments Internal model approach
External credit ratings are used to assign FVA reflects an adjustment to fair value The approach used to calculate market
risk-weights under the standardised in respect of derivative contracts that risk capital and RWA with an internal
approach for sovereigns, corporates reflects the funding costs that the market risk model approved by the PRA
and institutions. The external ratings market participant would incorporate under the terms of CRD/CRR.
are from credit rating agencies that are when determining an exit price.
registered or certified in accordance
with the credit rating agencies
regulation or from a central bank
issuing credit ratings which is exempt
from the application of this regulation.
Supplementary information Glossary
IAS or International Loan exposure Master netting agreement
Accounting Standard Loans and advances to customers An agreement between two
A standard that forms part of the reported on the balance sheet held counterparties that have multiple
International Financial Reporting at amortised cost or FVOCI, non- derivative contracts with each other
Standards framework. cancellable credit commitments and that provides for the net settlement of
cancellable credit commitments for all contracts through a single payment,
IASB or International credit cards and overdraft facilities in a single currency, in the event of
default on, or termination of, any
Accounting Standards Board
Loans and advances to one contract.
An independent standard-setting body
customers
responsible for the development and
Mezzanine capital
publication of IFRS, and approving This represents lending made under
interpretations of IFRS standards bilateral agreements with customers Financing that combines debt and
that are recommended by the IFRS entered into in the normal course of equity characteristics. For example,
Interpretations Committee (IFRIC). business and is based on the legal form a loan that also confers some profit
of the instrument. participation to the lender.
IFRS or International Financial
Reporting Standards Loans and advances to banks MREL or minimum requirement
A set of international accounting Amounts loaned to credit institutions for own funds and eligible
standards developed and issued by the including securities bought under liabilities
International Accounting Standards Reverse repo. A requirement under the Bank Recovery
Board, consisting of principles-based and Resolution Directive for EU
guidance contained within IFRSs and LTV or loan-to-value ratio resolution authorities to set a minimum
IASs. All companies that have issued A calculation which expresses the requirement for own funds and eligible
publicly traded securities in the EU are amount of a first mortgage lien as a liabilities for banks, implementing the
required to prepare annual and interim percentage of the total appraised FSB’s Total Loss Absorbing Capacity
reports under IFRS and IAS standards value of real property. The loan-to- (TLAC) standard. MREL is intended to
that have been endorsed by the EU. value ratio is used in determining the ensure that there is sufficient equity and
appropriate level of risk for the loan specific types of liabilities to facilitate an
IFRIC and therefore the correct price of the orderly resolution that minimises any
The IFRS Interpretations Committee loan to the borrower. impact on financial stability and ensures
the continuity of critical functions and
supports the IASB in providing
authoritative guidance on the Loans past due avoids exposing taxpayers to loss.
accounting treatment of issues not Loans on which payments have been
Net asset value (NAV) per share
specifically dealt with by existing IFRSs due for up to a maximum of 90 days
and IASs. including those on which partial Ratio of net assets (total assets less total
payments are being made. liabilities) to the number of ordinary
Investment grade shares outstanding at the end of a
A debt security, treasury bill or similar Loans subject to forbearance – reporting period.
instrument with a credit rating impaired
Net exposure
measured by external agencies of Loans where the terms have been
AAA to BBB. renegotiated on terms not consistent The aggregate of loans and advances
with current market levels due to to customers/loans and advances to
Leverage ratio financial difficulties of the borrower. banks after impairment provisions,
A ratio introduced under CRD IV Loans in this category are necessarily restricted balances with central banks,
that compares Tier 1 capital to total impaired. See ‘Forbearance’. derivatives (net of master netting
agreements), investment debt and
exposures, including certain exposures
equity securities, and letters of credit
held off-balance sheet as adjusted by Loss rate
and guarantees.
stipulated credit conversion factors. Uses an adjusted gross charge-off rate,
Intended to be a simple, non-risk-based developed using monthly write-off and
Net-zero roadmap
backstop measure. recoveries over the preceding 12 months
and total outstanding balances. Net-zero refers to a condition in which
Liquidation portfolio human-caused residual greenhouse
gas emissions (GHG) are balanced by
A portfolio of assets which is beyond our LGD or Loss given default
human-led removals over a specified
current risk appetite metrics and is held The percentage of an exposure that a
period and within specified boundaries.
for liquidation. lender expects to lose in the event of
Our Net-zero Roadmap refers to the
obligor default.
short and medium-term objectives and
LCR or Liquidity coverage ratio
quantifiable targets the Group has set
The ratio of the stock of high-quality Low returning clients to achieve net zero carbon emissions
liquid assets to expected net cash See ‘Perennial sub-optimal clients’. in our operations by 2025 and in our
outflows over the following 30 days. financed emissions by 2050.
High-quality liquid assets should be Malus
unencumbered, liquid in markets during An arrangement that permits the NII or Net interest income
a time of stress and, ideally, be central
Group to prevent vesting of all or part The difference between interest
bank eligible.
of the amount of an unvested variable received on assets and interest paid
remuneration award, due to a specific on liabilities.
crystallised risk, behaviour, conduct or
adverse performance outcome.
402 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Supplementary information Glossary
Repo/reverse repo Scope 2 emissions Solo
A repurchase agreement or repo is a Indirect GHG emissions from the The solo regulatory group as defined in
short-term funding agreement, which generation of purchased or acquired the Prudential Regulation Authority
allows a borrower to sell a financial electricity, steam, heating, or cooling waiver letter dated 16 September 2024
asset, such as asset-backed securities or consumed by the Group. differs from Standard Chartered Bank
government bonds as collateral for Company in that it includes the full
cash. As part of the agreement the Scope 3 emissions consolidation of four subsidiaries,
borrower agrees to repurchase the All indirect GHG emissions (not included namely Standard Chartered Holdings
security at some later date, usually less in Scope 2) that occur in the value chain (International) B.V., Standard Chartered
than 30 days, repaying the proceeds of of the Group, arising from sources not Grindlays PTY Limited, SCMB Overseas
the loan. For the party on the other end controlled by the Group. This comprises Limited, and Corrasi Covered Bonds LLP.
of the transaction (buying the security of both upstream and downstream
and agreeing to sell in the future), it is value chain emissions and includes Sovereign exposures
a reverse repurchase agreement or absolute financed emissions. Exposures to central governments and
reverse repo. central government departments,
Secured (fully and partially) central banks and entities owned or
Residential mortgage A secured loan is a loan in which the guaranteed by the aforementioned.
A loan to purchase a residential borrower pledges an asset as collateral Sovereign exposures, as defined by the
property which is then used as collateral for a loan which, in the event that the European Banking Authority, include
to guarantee repayment of the loan. borrower defaults, the Group is able to only exposures to central governments.
The borrower gives the lender a lien take possession of. All secured loans are
against the property, and the lender can considered fully secured if the fair value Stage 1
foreclose on the property if the borrower of the collateral is equal to or greater Assets have not experienced a
does not repay the loan per the agreed than the loan at the time of origination. significant increase in credit risk since
terms. Also known as a home loan. All other secured loans are considered origination and impairment recognised
to be partly secured. on the basis of 12 months expected
RoRWA or Return on risk- credit losses.
weighted assets Securitisation
Profit before tax for year as a Securitisation is a process by which Stage 2
percentage of RWA. Profit may credit exposures are aggregated Assets have experienced a significant
be statutory or underlying and is into a pool, which is used to back increase in credit risk since origination
specified where used. See ‘RWA’ and new securities. Under traditional and impairment is recognised on the
‘Underlying earnings’. securitisation transactions, assets are basis of lifetime expected credit losses.
sold to a structured entity which then
RWA or Risk-weighted assets issues new securities to investors at Stage 3
A measure of a bank’s assets adjusted different levels of seniority (credit Assets that are in default and
for their associated risks, expressed as tranching). This allows the credit quality considered credit-impaired (non-
a percentage of an exposure value of the assets to be separated from the performing loans).
in accordance with the applicable credit rating of the originating institution
standardised or IRB approach and transfers risk to external investors Standardised approach
provisions. in a way that meets their risk appetite.
In relation to credit risk, a method
Under synthetic securitisation
for calculating credit risk capital
Risks-not-in-VaR (RNIV) transactions, the transfer of risk is
requirements using External Credit
achieved by the use of credit derivatives
A framework for identifying and Assessment Institutions (ECAI) ratings
or guarantees, and the exposures being
quantifying marginal types of market and supervisory risk weights. In relation
securitised remain exposures of the
risk that are not captured in the Value to operational risk, a method of
originating institution.
at Risk (VaR) measure for any reason, calculating the operational capital
such as being a far-tail risk or the requirement by the application of a
Senior debt
necessary historical market data not supervisory defined percentage charge
being available. Debt that takes priority over other to the gross income of eight specified
unsecured or otherwise more ‘junior’ business lines.
Roll rate debt owed by the issuer. Senior debt has
greater seniority in the issuer’s capital
Uses a matrix that gives average loan Structured note
structure than subordinated debt. In the
migration rate from delinquency states An investment tool which pays a
event the issuer goes bankrupt, senior
from period to period. A matrix return linked to the value or level of a
debt theoretically must be repaid before
multiplication is then performed to specified asset or index and sometimes
other creditors receive any payment.
generate the final PDs by delinquency offers capital protection if the value
bucket over different time horizons. declines. Structured notes can be
SICR or Significant increase in
linked to equities, interest rates, funds,
Scope 1 emissions credit risk commodities and foreign currency.
Direct GHG emissions that occur from Assessed by comparing the risk of
sources owned or controlled by the default of an exposure at the reporting Subordinated liabilities
Group – i.e., emissions from combustion date to the risk of default at origination Liabilities which, in the event of
in owned or controlled boilers, furnaces, (after considering the passage of time. insolvency or liquidation of the issuer,
vehicles, as well as fugitive emissions are subordinated to the claims of
from pressure containing equipment at depositors and other creditors of
Group locations. the issuer.
404 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024
Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024 405
Supplementary
information
Sustainability Aspirations Transition risks Write-downs
Our Sustainability Aspirations are The risk of financial impact due to After an advance has been identified
consolidated into four overarching changes in market dynamics or sectoral as impaired and is subject to an
long-term goals, each supported by key economics due to governments’ impairment provision, the stage may be
performance indicators that we use to response to climate change, as well reached whereby it is concluded that
measure our progress and outcomes as competitors and advancements there is no realistic prospect of further
in areas in which we can make a in technology. recovery. Write-downs will occur when,
contribution to the delivery of the UN and to the extent that, the whole or part
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). UK bank levy of a debt is considered irrecoverable.
A levy that applies to certain UK banks
Sustainable Finance assets and the UK operations of foreign banks. XVA
Assets from clients whose business The levy is payable each year based The term used to incorporate credit,
activities are aligned with the on a percentage of the chargeable debit and funding valuation
Sustainability Bond Framework, those equities and liabilities on the Group’s adjustments to the fair value of
generated from transactions for which UK tax resident entities’ balance sheets. derivative financial instruments.
the use of proceeds will be utilised Key exclusions from chargeable equities See ‘CVA’, ‘DVA’ and ‘FVA’.
towards eligible themes and activities and liabilities include Tier 1 capital,
set out within the Sustainability Bond insured or guaranteed retail deposits,
Framework, or assets generated repos secured on certain sovereign debt
through our own lending activities to and liabilities subject to netting.
small and medium sized enterprises
(SMEs) in eligible markets or through Unbiased
our green mortgage offerings as per Not overly optimistic or pessimistic,
the criteria set out in the Sustainability represents information that is not
Bond Framework. slanted, weighted, emphasised,
de-emphasised or otherwise
Sustainable Finance income manipulated to increase the probability
Income generated from Sustainable that the financial information will be
Finance products and clients as listed received favourably or unfavourably
in the Green and Sustainable Product by users.
Framework. Additional products may
be approved throughout the year Unlikely to pay
by the Sustainable Finance Indications of unlikeliness to pay shall
Governance Committee. include placing the credit obligation on
non-accrued status; the recognition of a
Sustainability Linked Loan specific credit adjustment resulting from
Any type of loan instrument for which a significant perceived decline in credit
the economic characteristics can quality subsequent to the Group taking
vary depending on whether the on the exposure; selling the credit
counterparty achieves ambitious, obligation at a material credit-related
material and quantifiable economic loss; the Group consenting to
predetermined sustainability a distressed restructuring of the credit
performance targets (SPTs). obligation where this is likely to result
in a diminished financial obligation
Tier 1 capital caused by the material forgiveness, or
The sum of Common Equity Tier 1 capital postponement, of principal, interest
and Additional Tier 1 capital. or, where relevant fees; filing for the
obligor’s bankruptcy or a similar order in
respect of an obligor’s credit obligation
Tier 1 capital ratio
to the Group; the obligor has sought or
Tier 1 capital as a percentage of
has been placed in bankruptcy or similar
risk-weighted assets.
protection where this would avoid or
delay repayment of a credit obligation
Tier 2 capital
to the Group.
Tier 2 capital comprises qualifying
subordinated liabilities and related VaR or Value at Risk
share premium accounts.
A quantitative measure of market risk
estimating the potential loss that will
TLAC or Total loss
not be exceeded in a set time period
absorbing capacity at a set statistical confidence level.
An international standard for TLAC
issued by the FSB, which requires G-SIBs ViU or Value-in-Use
to have sufficient loss-absorbing and The present value of the future
recapitalisation capacity available in expected cash flows expected to
resolution, to minimise impacts on be derived from an asset or CGU.
financial stability, maintain the
continuity of critical functions and
avoid exposing public funds to loss.
Designed and produced by Friend label includes a unique ID number specific to this © Standard Chartered PLC. All rights reserved.
www.friendstudio.com product which can be tracked at www.climatepartner.
The STANDARD CHARTERED word mark, its logo
com, giving details of the carbon offsetting process
Printed by Park Communications a certified Carbon device and associated product brand names are
including information on the emissions volume and the
Neutral print company. owned by Standard Chartered PLC and centrally
carbon offset project being supported.
licensed to its operating entities.
Park works to the EMAS standard and its Environmental
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95%
Management System is certified to ISO 14001. Registered Office: 1 Basinghall Avenue, London
of press chemicals are recycled for further use and,
EC2V 5DD. Telephone +44 (0) 20 7885 8888.
This publication has been manufactured using 100% on average 99% of any waste associated with this
offshore wind electricity sourced from UK wind. production will be recycled and the remaining 1% Principal place of business in Hong Kong: 32nd Floor,
used to generate energy. 4-4A Des Voeux Road, Central, Hong Kong.
This document is printed on Nautilus Superwhite Registered in England No. 966425.
100% Recycled paper containing 100% recycled fibre.
The FSC® label on this product ensures responsible use
This is a certified climate neutral print product for of the world’s forest resources.
which carbon emissions have been calculated and
offset by supporting recognised carbon offset projects.
The carbon offset projects are audited and certified
according to international standards and
demonstrably reduce emissions. The climate neutral
406 Standard Chartered – Annual Report 2024